Amazing to see what Sucker Punch has achieved going from Infamous Series to Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks gorgeous. My biggest take is the absence of HUD, so you get to immerse yourself in the environment as the wind is used to guide you to your next location. My biggest gripe with most open-world games is having to spend half the time looking at the mini-map and this game solves it beautifully. Also, there is no level gating, where you can't fight an enemy because they are 30 levels above you. The combat is fluid and really satisfying (playing on hard). The loading times in the game are only a few seconds, which is surprising given it is running on HDD and such old hardware. The photo mode is rich with features. The customization and charms are fun. I feel this is the game that everyone wanted an Assassin's Creed in Japan to be. Overall, I have really enjoyed the hours I have put into this game. Congrats to Sucker Punch on this great game.
Very ambitious game from Sucker punch the developers of Infamous and sly games , Ghost of Tsushima takes off slow through the story but it gets interesting and better each time as you continue the story , the world is so beautiful filled with a lot of activities to enjoy , the wind system really makes the game special and refreshing , there’s no need to open the map every time , highly recommend the game
The game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. I could go more into detail but I dont think I need to. You got to play this game.


Sucker Punch won my heart with the original infamous and since then all their games keep improving on the previous one. They took a long time to release another ps4 titles but the wait was worth it. The story is amazing and it reminds me of classic japanese cinema, the music is very immersive and memorable, the graphics are mind blowing and photo mode is like a dream come true. the combat is very impressive, the only tiny flaw is when enemies are hit by arrows it looks silly. Sadly ultra left progressive reviewers bombed this game with 60s and 70s when that is far from the rating it deserves all because it doesn't have thar ultra diverse marginalized cast they always beg for. People need to get off their high horse of virtue signaling and allow people to enjoy games for what they are ENTERTAINMENT NOT POLITICAL STATEMENTS.

對馬戰鬼給你滿滿的時代劇風格 殺陣十分刺激 正面作戰還原武士的獨特美學 生死一瞬的腎上腺素激增讓我很興奮 風景畫面優美賞心悅目 傳說故事 俳句帶來不同意境 來吧 沉浸在對馬島的故事裡吧！






everything is good on this game but cutseeing could be better . Fighting and stealth system it worked well. generally it the best game i played in this years

Hands down the most beautiful open world I've had the pleasure to play in. The combat system is deep and rewarding. Interesting and non monotonous side activities with so much to do. You get a lot of bang for your buck with this one, and with the sub par ps exclusives at the moment *cough cough tlou2. This one was a breath of fresh air.
The best in this year.
Unbelievable game and the writing and story is actually awesome.. this is how a Revenge story is supposed to be told unlike TLOU2... as AVGN would say, "WHAT WERE THEY THINNNKIN" !! @naughtydog.
9,2 User Score? For real? I feel incredibly shocked by gaming culture these days. TLOU 2 which Set a new bar for storytelling in video games was review bombed and this repetitive game that does everything the exact same way and 100% caters to a non inventive open world trend with full of open world cliches and lackluster level design gets a 9,2? This could easily be an assassins creed game it’s not less inventive in fact Ubisoft create more detailed and prettier open worlds and Users would downvote the hell out of it. Unbelievable truly....
This game could be amazing but many nonesense dialogues, weak combat mechanics and a terrible camera make it look like a rushed product. To be honest you could overlook the first issues but the camera is really, really bad, worse than demon souls just to be clear :/ i really hope they do something about.
Very, very disappointed. Game looks great but it has loads of filler and the story and writing is poor imo. Combat is very easy and gets old quickly. Camera angle is very clunky. Game feels very dated, if it came out 5 years ago I think it would have been received much better. Disappointed.
I just finished the game. I don't want to write a wall of text here. I loved this game. The graphics in the higher graphic mode is just breathtaking. I loved the atmosphere of the game. it felt also refreshing not to have the feeling that an agenda is being pushed on you like it is being done by many game developers nowadays.

The best open world game of the ps4s time for sure ! The fighting mechanics take time to get used to and there is some issued with clipping threw things or not being able to find things, and follow birds up and down cliff side or threw building ... But overall its FINALLY a new open world right game . It doesnt hold your hand threw anything and you can do whatever you want in what ever order . Seems like some enemies are over powered but all the things ive saw wrong in the game can get patched . Nothing in the game to make me rate it any less. And if you rate this like a 60 out of 100. You dont see the full potential in the game. Or you ran threw on easy and just did the story ! Im 30+ hours in and started on hard for my first play and its amazing !!!!




Good story and gameplay. This is GOTY for me it is so immersive, gorgeous and great combat system. The scenery is godlike I have never seen anything like it in a game.
Basically, it's a really good game. The story is pretty simple and turns out is not that predictable, it gets emotional at times but ultimately, it does not leave you in a bad state when you finish. The combat is to die for! It is super fun with the dynamics of the ways to kill people. Starting out, you'll figure out how to stay alive but later it'll be how specifically you want to fight. I wouldn't have considered it super easy but in truth it really is very easy once you get to upgrading your gear. I recommend playing it under the highest difficulty just for the challenge. The only issues with this game are PURELY technical ones. Whether it be bugs and glitches. Another thing that bothers me is that character interactions are not even animated it just sort of transitioned through a black screen. Aside this, they still have trouble with how to recreat emotion. Then again, you'd have to know that the developer doesn't have as big of a team nor the budget as such in the likes of The Last of Us. Putting those disadvantages aside, it really is the perfect game. If you're into something new, or really if you like Ryse : Son of Rome, this truly is the perfect game for you.


This is the best game I have ever played and it’s exactly what I have been waiting for all these years, if you like RPG’s, jrpg’s, stealth games or open world games this is the game for you, with all these themes shoved into one beautiful breathtaking game you are sure to have an amazing time, the combat is almost as beautiful as the scenery and the game makes sure exploring it is worth your while !!
Fantastic game! I want more games like this in future!! Good and deep characters, fantastic open world of Japan. Love this game. Sony, please cheate and support more games like Ghost.


You have to play this game at least once in your life. A journey like no other. Better than I could have even imagined this game to be. Do yourself a favor and play it.
Игра имеет старые механики но при этом использует их весьма грамотно, привнося в них свою изюминку. Отмечу приятную графики, великолепную музыку, и потрясающий стиль древней Японии. GoT очень красива, каждый кадр это оргазм для глаз, вликолепный финальный аккорд для ps4. Спасибо Sony.
One of the best games i have played on PS4. Graphics are gorgeous. Those landscapes full of grass and flowers are stunning. Level of impressiveness is unbelievable thanks to minimized HUD and Japanese soundtrack. Combat system is addictive and brutal. Every parry or succeed standoff makes you feel high. Progression system is great too, every special attack now has it's own background also every new gear is plot explained.
The world created in this game by Sucker Punch studios in this game is strikingly beautiful and filled and filled with things to do (side quests and fun mini games) . The story although can be predictable but is great nonetheless. The combat that makes you feel like a badass but steath falls apart a little but a game where you can have for hours upon hours living the samurai/ghost life.
Absolutely astonishing, the latest Sucker Punch project is an absolute masterpiece in every aspect, every single part of the game is incredibly polished, from the impressive graphics to the magnificient blood spilling physics, Ghost of Tsushima as the very last ps4 exclusive is a must play.
The game is great overall, the scenery is the best I can think of, the story and gameplay are good enough on their own right but the lack of locking system does cause issues. the dialogue for Japanese is also somewhat out of sync but it's a given. Anyway awesome game and definitely GOTY candidate. Not at all like the dumpster fire i.e, the TLOU2

This game is just as fun as it is beautiful. All the main cast voice acting is superb and all main characters are well developed and give you reasons to care about them. The “Normal” difficult was a challenge but balanced, and the main story takes a long time to complete, not including all the side missions which are also a joy to play rather than a chore. Although the game does steer you towards stealth gameplay a few times, there are plenty opportunities to play the honourable “Samurai” way too. The combat feels like a more satisfying version of For Honor with a bit of Arkham stealth mechanics sprinkled in for good measure. This is the Samurai RPG long overdue in 2020, and far exceeded my expectations. I’m definitely excited for SuckerPunch’s next project.
Ghost of Tsushima has amazing art design with conscious attention to detail, thus creating a most beautiful world. The combat is engaging and fun, so much better than other recent AAA titles. And I can’t understand why some people say that this game is bad, it really does blow other recent games away. It has all the polish without the woke signal virtue signalling and in my opinion it definitely one of the biggest releases this year and is a great completion to the current generation of console games.

This game is amazing. To put it simply: It makes you feel like a samurai in Japan. Presentation: The visuals are beautiful. It goes for a mix of realism and artistic painting that completely makes you believe in the world on one side, and be simply mesmerized by the colors and the movement of the leaves in the wind on the other side. The sound and the voice acting are very good. in particular, the sound of your sword when attacking and cutting through enemies never gets old. The music in this game will contribute to the feeling of immersion I mentioned earlier, the action pieces are going to keep you engaged through the encounters and the soft and more melodical pieces are very well done. Gameplay: The combat is fun and engaging, it keeps you on your toes constantly and in the hard difficulty in can be a serious challenge if not approached thoughtfully. Honestly one of the things I love about the game is that it keeps gamey elements that really make the experience a loooot better. For example: when riding on your horse, you can pick up resources and loot from the ground without having to get off the horse. This is just an example, but the game is filled with stuff like that and it gets away with those things because of the strong immersion it generates with its atmospherical music and visuals. In my opinion the gameplay loop (meaning the things that are the main elements of the game that you do over and over again) is extremely fun and well done. It is because of how fun the combat and the gameplay is that you will forgive a few things that you will need to get used to. Among these things: the sometimes bad camera will take some time to adjust to (once you understand and adjust to the camera, it gets a lot better) ; the movement of the character when traversing vertical obstacles doesn't feel very fluid; and the enemy AI is a bit lacking sometimes. These issuers are not game-breakers at all and in my personal opinion, you get used to them and accept the game as it is because it is so damn fun. Overall: you need to play this game. The visuals alone are a reason to experience it. If you add the addicting gameplay and combat you have a game that will keep you entertained and thinking about it for very long periods of time!
Easily game of the year. The action is top notch and violent. Many ways to approach objectives and enemies. Story is very captivating. You get sunk into the role of Jin and end up caring about the other characters and their stories. There is so much to do and tons of exploration. The map is huge and scenery is absolutely gorgeous. There are a few bugs but very few and minor bugs or glitches. Nothing major enough to really complain about and no doubt easily fixable in a small patch that's probably coming soon. A must buy and play!
masterful Japanese samurai game which respects its history and culture, it has one of the best sword combat i have ever played and with a great story that keeps you going with excitement. anyone who wants a good samurai game needs to play this game. this is the best ps4 game in this generation and its worth its asking price



Great game with no identity politics shoved in our faces and an evil company vice president as the developer! Couldn't have asked for anything better with all of the crappy other games that have come out recently, what a breath of fresh air. and don't worry, there's no golf clubs in this game just dope katana's and tanto's.
I have waited for this game to come out since it was first announced. It has not disappointed in any way, shape, or form. The style that exudes from every moment is astounding. If you like open world games and samurai settings you are going to drool over this one. Lots of customization and just the most vibrant and beautiful game I have ever played! Perfect way to usher in the next generation. THANK YOU SUCKER PUNCH!
Wasnt planning to buy this game so early but I'm glad I did. Literally the only complaint I have about this game is the camera is too close on your horse, otherwise this game executes perfectly what it sets out to be.
I love everything about the game. It is wonderful. The fights, the environment, the control mechanics, the story, side missions, upgrades and colors are perfect. The game has no issues to be addressed and it is better than all other historical open world games in the market.
Ghost of Tsushima is a great game which lives up to the hype. Great story, gameplay, mechanics, etc... This is a great title to send off the PS4 before the next gen consoles come out.
This game is a well example of what happens if a game company doesn't listen some toxic people who have some lunatic idea under the names of justice and fairness.Game it self is close to perfect but i gave 10 just because they made this game for ALL OF US not SOME OF US.

What an amazing game. First I think it is one of the most lovely games ever. The world is so alive with life and color. The combat is fun and can really be diverse which adds to the fun. I know some people have a problem with the camera and that fact there's no lock on. But I don't think it is as bad as some make it out to be. You can still get used to it. I like the skill tree and all the customization, you can really choose a good style that fits what you like and that is fun. There is plenty to do and lots to explore. I think many people will have e an amazing time with this game and I recommend.
Everything about this game is beautiful and precise.. combat is by far the best Sword on Sword combat youll ever see and the beauty of the island of Tsushima will make you pause your mission just to capture that perfect screenshot to share with others



One of the best open worlds i've played, every scene is like a picture, it's like i'm playing a concept art, the combat and stealth are really solid, and the story is really good. Jim is a great main character, a kind and chill guy and that's actually not common in games. It's a great contender to game of the year, in my opinion, is more than worth a buy.

This game deserves all the praises, and even though I loved every second I spent on Tsushima Island I can't give this game a 10/10 just because I agree with some reviewers that this game lacks a certain polish to some aspects of its gameplay if compared to the most 10/10 games out there. However, this piece of media is magnificent, beautiful, and will make most of the players stop for a minute to take in the world around them. One important aspect of the game that Sucker Punch was able to translate into the game with sublime skill, is most probably one of the most important parts of such games to most, the immersive experience. This comes from the stunning visuals and of course from the audio experience. When galloping or wandering on foot through the fields and forests of Tsushima, the world fills you with emotion and makes you believe you there. The sounds of the wind blowing, the leaves flying through air and animals calling out to their friends, places you into the shoes of Jin Sakai. And music is masterfully crafted and fits the story and the experience like a glove. To some, the story may resonate and to others, it may feel like they've experienced it before, it is completely true that this game doesn't provide any specific surprises in its narrative that will make you remember it for its unique experience. Nonetheless, it is a solid story that motivates you to spur on and see it to the end. Now going into the gameplay, the sword on sword experience (meaning battles) feels buttery smooth, and if compared to the game that everyone decided to compare it to the (latest installments of Assasins Creed) one could say that these games are worlds apart. The combat feels satisfying, and if mastered can make you feel like the most lethal samurai the world has ever seen and that is what this game does well. It is not forgiving in its combat, meaning that if you make 3 or more mistakes it will cost you your life BUT it also allows you to feel powerful if you manage to cleanly battle through troops of Mongolian soldiers and other enemies. ALSO, the combat has such variety, from multiple stances, to sneak OR head-on attack strategy, to even DUELs and Stand-offs - which makes it always feel fresh and never boring. The fact that one second you can be striking your enemies down with force in warrior battles to hiding and sneaking on them from behind if you feel overwhelmed or just want to feel like an assassin. It needs to be said, the enemies aren't perfect (although the variety is vast) the AI can be a little "dumb" for a lack of a better word but it's not as though 95% of the other games have AI that is solving Einstein's mathematical problems. This is most probably a trope that will elapse with time and an introduction of the new generation consoles, but for now it is still satisfying to battle against this AI and allows you to feel like you are the GHOST, because you are smarter, faster and better than the enemies you hunt. With that said, this game is not easy and it may place you under certain moments of stress and near escapes BUT this is not anything like Dark Souls. This game has a completely different foundation and is not there to grind through every enemy. The use of horses and overall roaming abilities are well balanced and well-executed, although the climbing does feel a little stiff and unresponsive in some instances, it's not game-breaking just can get a little irritating when most of the experience is so smooth. I played the game on the PS4 slim, and in a few instances there were minor frame drops, 98% of the time the game runs perfectly and so far, there haven't been any game-breaking bugs or bugs that make you quit the game or reload the console. I'd even say, I haven't really experienced any bugs whatsoever. The lack of HUD on the screen during gameplay and the use of wind to direct the player towards his/her objectives is immaculate and makes you want to never open the map. The biggest shortcoming of the game is just the fact that there were so many open-world games, Ghost of Tsushima doesn't offer anything particularly new except for a new map, with visuals that make one stand in awe, with a somewhat unique traversal system and of course the tale of the samurai that is historically connected to our world. BUT Sucker Punch was able to take the things we love about the open-world genre and work them in with precision and skill, just like a samurai would. I give this game a rank of FULL HONOUR! This is the perfect way for PS4 era of exclusives to give way to the new era. If you are into an open-world game genre, or just like Japanese culture, this game will be right up your ally. That said, it's not a game for everyone BUT it is a game that stands above most and completely deserves a place next to other open-world titans such as (God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn, and Spider-Man).
One the the most enjoyable games ive played in years, compelling story that made you feel for the characters, beautifully stunning vistas , smooth flowing combat. Its has a few flaws but in the grand scheme of things came be easily overlooked
This is my new favorite PS4 game. The environment, graphics, and sound design are all amazing, and the combat is fun and rewarding. The different stances, defensive techniques, and special moves are awesome, and the little touches like how the katana gets stuck in a defeated enemy for a split second before Jin wrenches it free and moves on to the next opponent elevate it to the next level. The story is great, especially some of the side missions for the companions you meet during the main story line. I am generally not even a fan of stealth games, but in Ghost of Tsushima stealth is generally optional, and I find my self viewing it as a useful tool in my arsenal instead of something to rush through to get to the next story segment or battle. I didn't know much about GoT before I bought it, other than it was set in Japan and you get to be a samurai, but it seemed like a good game to pick up while waiting for Cyberpunk to come out. It turns out I stumbled onto my favorite game of this generation. Can't say enough good things, I hope Sucker Punch turns this into a series.

Best open world game I have ever played, the combat is so well done, the enemies get tougher but the katana never feels like it's weak. The exploration is unique with no mini maps on screen and honestly the inclusion of guiding wind in it's place is such a brilliant idea. Story is told in a beautiful way, the characters also done very well. And the world of Tsushima is so beautiful and breathtaking. This game is the best I have ever played in this genre. It's a masterpiece and the best way to say goodbye to the PS4

It's exactly what I wanted: Assassin's Creed set in feudal Japan. It's escapist and it's a power fantasy - perfect for these difficult times. And unlike another recent Sony exclusive, it doesn't push some gloomy political or social justice message on the gamer - just a fun and well-polished experience with beautiful graphics and sound design.
Solid story and characters, amazing combat, beautiful graphics, mediocre stealth. Some side missions are boring and exploration gets dull after a while
This game is legendary. There's nothing like it. I've always wanted to experience being a samurai. Not only is it stunningly beautiful but its intensely hard hitting. The story of Jin standing up for his country while trying to live up to his heritage is an amazing thing to see. The combat is smooth and clean. This game doesnt bring anything new to gaming but it does deliver as promised.

For a new IP to be this good in terms of visuals, story, gameplay, it’s unbelievable . Its like Tenchu being reborn again with on crack. A must have to end this generation of gaming.
If this game isn't Game of the Year then I don't know what is. First of all this game has an amazing story where you feel connected to the characters. Second of all it has amazing gameplay feel and controls. Third of all the game is not too hard or too easy. Fourth of all it has a variety of side missions to play from. Last but not least the game has amazing graphics where you feel the immersion of the world and the deep connection. There are many positive things that I probably haven't covered about this game. I would recommend anyone who loves story driven and open world action-packed games to give this game an experience.

What a game to end ps4 era with. - Main quests and side quests are great and enjoyable - Graphic is outstanding as you probably already know - There is no system where you have to farm to certain level to be able to fight certain enemy


After Witcher 3 and Red Dead Redemption 2, no game got me feeling excited or forced me to play beyond my gaming time. Not until I played Ghost of Tsushima. I already clocked more than 50 hours into the game. As a working adult, I'm having trouble balancing my acts.
Great combat system, impressive graphics (makes real life look like it could use an update), amazing character development and story, nice wind tracking mechanism, you can pet the fox!
A Game for the sake of gaming... Its lush environments show true passion and care to intense immersion in the game world (not this world) That's one of the greatest things about gaming...it takes you to an alternate place an alternate reality where the crap of this world is non-existent!
A wonderful game, maybe the best of this console Generation. Imagine you take the best parts of Red Dead Redemption 2, Witcher3, Kingdom Come Deliverance, Sekiro and mix it up in an Akira Kurusawa Movie. I´ve been a fan of Kurosawa for a long time so this is just the pinnacle of games for me. Compared to the witcher or Red Dead Redemption what i really prefered in Ghost of Tsushima is, that there is no urgency and Quest Bombing of side activities. Remember coming into a new town in Witcher 3 while in a Quest and 20 People runnning asking for some Urgent Side Mission you have to do? It really broke the emersion for me always to be thrown into new quest and then while i´m doing the Quest getting 3 new Quests. Its was really annoying. GoT gives you new Quests of course but none of them have immenent urgengy, "Quickly, go ther and help or everybody dies" like it had in the other games. The visuals are just stunning and really beautiful. The Quest are interesting. They get sometimes a bit repetitive but the game comensates that with a big variety of tackeling the Quest. You can sneak, you can do a Stand Off, you can just storm in a camp and reach havoc, the game gives you a lot of choices and freedom to acomplish your goals.

لعبة قوست او تسوشيما من افضل ما لعبت في هذا الجيل لعبة رائعة بعالمها الجميل و الخلاب و قصة ممتعة تود تود المعرفة كيف سوف تنتهي و اعتقد انها من افضل الالعاب التي قدمت مهام جانبية متنوعة و مشوقة و التكرار في المهام الجانبية ضئيل إلى حدً ما و الشخصيات الرائعة في اللعبة و طريقة اللعب ممتعة جداً لم أمل منها حتى اعتقد انها تستحق افضل لعبة في السنة

Jogo divertido... E combate épico... Garantia de horas e horas de diversão
Beautiful graphics, polished battlesystem, interesting story, overall very well balanced. Being a witcher fan, starved one as such, this samurai adventure is very enjoyable. Best game I've played for quite a few years. The minor negatives: * Sync audio a bit annoying when playing with Japanese audio. * A bit repetitive at times. * Enemy AI a bit dated.

OMG THIS GAME IS SO GOOD. I love the feudal Japan era/ samurai era, and I love samurai films and have I got to say this game makes you feel like an unstoppable samurai trying to find the right path. It’s everything I asked for and more as a samurai fan. But there are some off point like missions are similar and such as well as repetitive but I didn’t mind much cause it was fun just being the protagonist, Jin is probably one of the best protagonists of all time the ups and downs he goes threw and sometimes I don’t agree with a few decision he makes but Later on they are justified. All the supporting characters are a 10/10 I loved every supporting character and they make the game so much better this game has the best environmental and model graphics I have seen Ever and is the most beautiful game I have ever played. This game is In my top 10 favourite games ever. Reasons I gave it a 9 is cause repetitive missions who’s isn’t a big deal but ehh.. also because the hard difficulty isn’t hard which is probably what they whet going for since you are supposed to be unstoppable but it’s to easy sometimes. But the main thing is that there is no new game + or dlc that are confirmed as of now, the thing is once your done the game since your so op and every thing you earned and all the skills are kind useless so I feel like have a new game plus with a much harder difficulty with more abilities some new missions and armour pieces and such maybe even dual wielding would make me give this game a 10 cause once your done the game TRUST ME YOU WANT SO MUCH MORE.
STOP READING THIS AND GO PLAY THE DAMN GAME!!! NOT ENOUGH? OK... This game simply amazing. I honestly believe this is sooo much better than a lot of games that were hyped up so bad and didn't deliver in the end. Well done sucker punch. I can't put it down!! I will never forgive them if they don't release the update version for PS5. I am so depressed that I finished the game now. I had this feeling when I finished God of War too. It sets your expectations sooooooo high that it will be a nightmare to pick up the next game and actually enjoy it.

Awesome feeling, good story, voice acting and gameplay (fights, items, etc...). One of the best game in this year. I very very recommend this game! And the epilogue is perfect and artistic! For me, only one thing really missing: the Juna romance :)
Ghost of Tsushima is a great game and a lot of fun, but I must say that to me, it unfortunately falls short of being a perfect 10/10 like most people claim it to be. The gameplay is amazing. Initially, I was afraid that the combat was a little generic, but once you start learning and upgrading your different stances and tools, it becomes a whole new game. The combat system and techniques in this game reminded me a lot of what the recent Spiderman's combat felt like: the game allows you to be creative when you fight, and utilise all the tools at your disposal to gain an advantage and achieve a clean victory. the animations and visuals during a fight are fluid, and each swing of your katana carries a weight to it that makes each kill you get a satisfying one. Each opportunity for a fight had me excited and wanting to test out new combos and strings on my enemies. Where the gameplay falls short is the stealth. Not only are the ghost branch upgrades really uninteresting and inconsequential, but there really is no fun to be had if you choose the stealthy approach. There's nothing fun about pressing square or triangle and going through the same animation of stabbing someone in the neck hundreds of times. The incredibly stupid AI doesn't help with this, I've had moments where the AI soldiers stare at me while I murder their friend in cold blood, and then go on about their days. But other than the few missions where you're forced to use stealth, you almost always have the option to go loud and live your dream of being an invincible samurai warrior, so I'm not complaining too much. Another super annoying part of the game is the lack of a "lock-on" button during combat, I can't stress how many times I've been unable to attack the enemy I wanted when taking on a group, and thus making the fight much harder than it has to be. The world of this game - as many have already said - is one of the most beautiful in any video game out there. The art direction that Sucker Punch took for this title has truly paid off and made me want to explore non-stop. The various Fox dens, Shrines, Bamboo strikes, Haikus etc were all essentially the same thing in different locations, but I never got bored of doing them as it allowed me to take in more of the world's beauty with an added benefit of upgrading my character. The game has a good story. The plot is alright, nothing spectacular, but Jin's path to becoming a ghost (although executed haphazardly which I will get to later) makes for an engaging story as Jin slowly abandons the way of the Samurai. The characters are well written and each one has a unique personality and backstory; the voice acting is also mostly great (I played the game in English, by the way). However, I feel like the game takes itself way too seriously. Most of the dialogue between the characters is incredibly dull and serious, and thus the game is unable to effectively build relationships between Jin and his companions. Sure, maybe this was intended, but my point still stands; there is often a significant lack of comradery and emotions between the characters. But my biggest gripe with the game is the poorly executed transition into becoming a ghost. Here I am, the player, doing standoffs to clear settlements and killing my enemies WITH honour. But then all of a sudden, there's a cutscene where someone talks about finding dead Mongol soldiers that were stabbed in the back by the "dishonourable ghost" a.k.a Jin Sakai. And then, towards the second act of the game people just call you the ghost and you're forced to accept it. Anyways, it probably sounds like I'm nitpicking. The story does have a really great ending and a pretty satisfying conclusion to Jin's journey. Overall, although I think Ghost of Tsushima is not the revolutionary masterpiece it's being portrayed as, it IS an extremely fun open-world samurai game with a breathtaking rendition of the island of Tsushima that players can explore. There truly was never a moment where I thought I was getting bored with its gameplay. And although the story does fall short for me, it manages to get the job done. If you're a fan of open-world games, this is a must-buy.
The game is fantastic, although I didn't really like the combat system in which we were unable to mark the enemy. The map is quite large and has a lot to do. The coolest thing is that it doesn't get boring. The graphic, the landscapes employ.
Ghost of tsushima me parece muy buen juego la verdad. Historia: La historia es simple. Pero no por eso es malo, ya que la historia es una ayuda al gameplay. Jugavilidad: La jugavilidad tiene muy buena curva de dificultad.

It could easily have been a 10, but 2 major issues for me. The camera. Any fighting near big objects causes the camera to obscure your ability to fight and see the opponent. Which can be very frustrating while trying not to get hit and build up your meter. During standoffs, the camera chooses poor angles hindering your gameplay. I have lost too many standoffs because the opponent was blocked by an object or partially hidden in grass/snow/trees/etc. The other major issue is the length of dialogue. For the first half of the game the cut scenes are mostly quick and to the point which was great. But then it starts to drag on and on in conversations I wanted to just skip. Strange how the pacing of the first half was not present in the second. Other than that it is one of my favorite games of the year.
The best game 2020! This game has a lot going for it. Engaging story, great voice acting(playing with Japanese voices), beautiful landscapes, and well developed characters. The game has hours and hours of content and with all the stances and items it doesn’t get old at all.

A pesar de sus carencias obvias en cuanto a la repetición de algunas misiones secundarias, sus gráficos, dirección artística, ambientación, jugabilidad, historia y más hacen que Ghost of Tsushima sea uno de los mejores juegos que PS4 puede ofrecer
I've never been this invested in a game before. I can barely concentrate on my work without having to go to my console and turning it on every now and then just to play this gorgeous open world game. Sucker punch out done themselves with this one. This ginormous open world game has me interacting with the gorgeous world more than the main story itself. I often find myself lost in the magical world of Ghost of Tsushima to an extent where I forget I have a main story to complete, following foxes and birds and liberating mongol strongholds is an experience you will only be able to fathom by playing it yourselves. Finally to conclude, excuse me sucker punch I demand a part 2. Thanks. (Great job tho y'all hehe
Amazing game. I think, that it is one of the best playstation 4 exclusives because it have very good atmosphere, cutscenes , graphics. I want to recommend playing this game
The kind of game that I cannot stop playing and really don't tire of. It's open-world nature is far better than others in this genre with two key elements: fast travel right away, and upgrades to "techniques" that allow a multitude of fighting styles and approaches to combat. Beautiful, fun, engaging, and a vast world that feels like the real world in the most vivid landscape imaginable. So deep and repayable that we will be talking about this game until the sequel comes out (Fingers Crossed!).
Good journey.This is the right things that maturity 3A game will do. Experience of gameplay are so fantastic,I always like to take a photo and devoted to fighting with enemy. Thank you Sucker Punch!


This is the best Samurai game that’s ever been released, I’m so excited to see what’s in store for this franchise. Way to go SP whatever future endeavours you guys make I’ll be sure to pick up.
it is a legendary game in the full sense of the word that deserves the game of the year
As a japan culture fan, I could not be happier, sold out in Japan. Real respect of the culture. I feel like I'm playing a Kurosawa jideigeki movie. Graphics are awesome, despite not being the most important element. Combats are FUN as hell. Sometimes, you dont need to change the recipe but the ingredients. It is like The Witcher 3 in Japan for me, many many ways to tackle every fight, If you are a good open world rpg lover, you'll sure like this game a lot. I give a 10/10 beacause it is in Japan, otherwise it would be a 9.5. Respect to sucker punch for this love letter to Japan.
With it’s attention to detail on its open world, challenging combat, memorable soundtrack, and moments that just leave you in deep thought, this game offers the tranquility that some ever get to find. Great job SP.

While not perfect and I would give it like a 8,7/10, I was enjoying the gameplay and story throughout the 20-30 hours. What doesn't make it a 10/10 is the sheer ridiculous amount of collectibles. I tell all my friends to not to go out of their way to collect everything (some exceptions like singing crickets).
I enjoy story based games, and this action RPG is up there as one of the most memorable this generation. Fantastic Cinematography, story, gameplay and sound design!


Haven't wanted to put it down since I started playing. Combat is rewarding and never gets old. The environments are picture perfect everywhere you go. The story is amazing in structure, style, and content.
Okay so - after 2 days of playing - here is my HONEST review: 1. Graphics are very nice but what makes it unique is the setting and lightning. You may find the overuse of flowers/sakura petals a bit annoying but thats what they focused on otherwise the world would be barren with nothing interesting to see. 2. Combat is easy early on since you have just 1 stance, but it becomes a bit interesting after you get other stances as they are needed for specific enemies. 3. Side activities vary from random encounters saving the people of Tsushima to random missions you get by talking to people. My nit picking with this is that they repeat quite often (i understand the need for content but making them memorable would be better). 4. Lip syncing is ... bad. I don't know what happened there but from what i see in all the cutscenes, it is just not syncing with what they say (neither in english or japanese). Another nit picking i have to state is that you CANNOT skip cutscenes during your first gameplay (in New Game + i guess you can but cannot say for certain as i have not finished the game). 5. I have maximum gear (weapons+armor) when i reached Act 2 and it does make the combat very dull since most enemies die very easy (1-2 hits except for big guys) but the setting, blood, samurai vibe and story keeps you going. The main issue i have is the camera that sadly i have to constantly move to make sure that i target the correct enemy but sometimes, when you are surrounded by 5 of them, it's harder than you think to hit the one you mean to. There is NO lock on system so you need to adjust your camera every time you prepare to hit/dodge/parry a specific enemy. 6. I sometimes feel like the horse animations are a bit weird compared to other games but this is just 1 more small thing i would prefer to be different. 7. Game has some nice puzzles and it feels a lot like an Assassins Creed game. To be fair, once you get further in the story, you get more and more vibes of Assassins Creed core ideas. 8. There are a few masks/hats that can be found in the world just be exploring and some look awesome and you can combine them with armors. 9. The Charm system is also nice and different from "weapons has X stat and buffs X stuff". Armors are a different thing - they added base buffs that can be improved by upgrading the armor. Armors change looks once upgraded. 10. Resources can be found in most places but some of them are locked behind specific missions which makes me think that i have no option but to upgrade 1 or the other armor. Would've been nice if we could get all materials from random places in the world which would be randomized as soon as you restart the game (that way nobody can know exactly which location to go to in order to get X resource). 11. I noticed a few screen tearings/white screen for half a second while riding the horse. I also managed to stuck myself in between 2 rocks for a few seconds then my character automatically jumped out of that position and sometimes it just respawned me. These kind of bugs are expected and fun if encountered so i won't hold them down for this. A few patches should fix those small things. No major bugs hindering progress were encountered during my gameplay sessions. Overall thoughts about the game: It has a wonderful setting with lots of activities that involve combat mostly, samurai stances and assassinations give you vibes of Assassins Creed, interesting story (can't give more info on that as i am barely at Act 2), simple upgrade system and simple resource gathering system. Would give this a 9/10 because of the above and would recommend it for any Open World Gameplay enthusiast that also enjoyed one of the following: Assassins Creed Zelda God of War Witcher Shadow of the Colossus Message to developers: Think of what makes a good game and focus on those aspects - Engaging Story with choices or unpredictable plot twist - Good combat with different ways to engage/escape - Good crafting/gathering system to make players willing to grind/find the specific materials - Entertaining puzzles that vary in difficulty (jumping/climbing/platform/mind) - Loads of customization (armors/accessories - more slots = more work for you but more options for the players) - Interesting and unique boss fights that can take you from 1 location to another and reward you with special gear/accessories. There are a lot more things that players want but this is - in my opinion - the bare minimum that some desire. Thank you for everything you've done and continue to do in the future :). I appreciate your work and recommend it whenever i get the chance.
Es una maravilla, si te gusta el Japón feudal vas a disfrutar de cada segundo de este juego. Solo tengo que decir que como todos los mundo abiertos tiene puntos para tele-transportarse, y aún no los he usado. Disfruto de ir a todos lados con mi caballo. Una obra de arte.
This game is just asesore. Don't listen to Any one saying it's very good, it is a must buy for this generation. Assassins creed should look up to this game to ever get at this level of just good old quality.
En mi opinión el juego es perfecto. La trama es interesante, los personajes son buenísimos y realmente te hace meterte en el papel del prota. Aparte también es, creo yo, un top 3 en mejores mundos abiertos, no es ni muy grande ni muy pequeño y es muy bello además de que hay muchas cosas que hacer.
Beautiful swansong for the PS4 which I will definitely play again with the inevitable PS5 remaster. played on the PS4 Pro. + Great artistic style and smooth animations + A Story that makes you want to keep going and characters you want to help + The contrasting ability to continue the Samurai code, or adapt a more stealthy approach + The wind compass and minimalist HUD worked so much better than expected + A beautifully crafted open world that despite offering fast travel I rarely desired to use it. - Some line delivery and dialogue wasn't great (English language played) - it ended A true Masterpiece by Sucker Punch
Great in every aspect ! .. one of the best games in during ps4 era .. the art design in out of this world , and the passion put in making this game is really to be admired ! Thanks sucker punch .. now m a big fan !
What a stunning one of a kind game. Everything from the combat, story to exploration is top notch. The sound and music is world class with the soundtrack being one of the best I’ve ever heard. The island of Tsushima is truely stunning to explore and worth it too, especially with some of the most beautiful graphics to grace a video game to date. Quickly becoming one of my all time favourites. Follow that golden bird straight to a video game store and experience this unique gem
I think Ghost Of Tsushima deserves GOTY. It's the game I was dreaming of, amazing graphics, amazing combat system and a very funny stealth like a Tenchu. It only needs a NG+ thrn it'll be perfect!
Amazing to see what Sucker Punch has achieved going from Infamous Series to Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks gorgeous. My biggest take is the absence of HUD, so you get to immerse yourself in the environment as the wind is used to guide you to your next location.
Uno dei open world che mi è piaciuto tantissimo, non essendo amante degli open world, gioco strutturato in maniera spettacolare anche se c' è da migliorare un pochettino sulla grafica, ma del resto è bellissimo.

This game is great. It takes a little from this and a little from that, in order to make an amazing experience. The combat can be stealthy or "honorable". That is one of the main themes of the game is Jin's descent from an honorable samurai from a noble house, to the Ghost who "tears men apart like dogs" and uses any means necessary to kill the Mongolian invaders. The exploration and graphics is where the game really shines, with there always being something to do, something to craft, a person to help, a bandit camp to eradicate, etc etc. Combat is not amazing, and the side quest stories can get a little predictable, but that fits with the world. When you are tasked with finding a man's family after a Mongolian invasion, one should not be surprised to find that family already dead. All in all, this game is a must buy if you are a fan of old samurai movies, or a good old fashioned underdog revenge story.
A visually stunning and utterly breathtaking game. What sucker punch have achieved with this game is just short of perfection. I won't spoil it but the story is one of survival, loyalty, friendship and above all, hope all intertwined with an entertaining, if somewhat repetitive, combat system. This system and in game bugs are the only things preventing me giving this game a perfect 10. I may go back and play on a higher difficulty and would recommend this if you relish a challenge but playing normal difficulty was still thoroughly enjoyable. I also had Japanese dialogue with English subtitles and they mouth movements didnt add up on an obvious way but it isn't immersion breaking just a little nit pick. Play this game game, you will not regret it.
A once in a generation video game. A perfect mixture of combat, exploration, story, art and music. No filler, no pointless multiplayer, no micro-transactions, no forced political agenda. Thank you Sucker Punch.
My personal game of the year. While other western developers are totally lost in pushing politics over gameplay or engaging stories, Sucker Punch rise above the rest of the slop and deliver a flawless game rivaling something a Japanese developer could put out. Flawless, addictive combat coupled with entrancing graphics and several revolutionary ways to immerse the player all add up to one of the best games the PS4 has to offer.
I don't know what's going on with all this Asian American Non sense, but I don't really care either, so I'll just Review... Ghost of Tsushima was a very breathtaking game, Honestly one of the few Open World Games which I can find amusement. It'd most certainly recommend playing the game due to it's compelling Story and overall scenery of the entire map... You would legit want to just go on top of a mountain and make a screenshot to go into your PS4 Background, or go through a flower field and see how beautiful the game really is.

Taking into account the fact that I practically love Japanese culture, which can prevent me from having a 100% critical position towards this game, however, I doubt that it is not worthy of the high scores given by the users. Now either in terms of the concept of the game or rather in the context in which it is located not only for me a big fan of Japanese culture but also for people who are not very familiar with it, it seems a great success on the part of Suker Punch, put not only in video games but also in the movies, a story has been placed within the kamakura period, that is, the period in which the Mongol invasion took place, the reason why I think it is a success is that just precisely at that time the development of a character could be appreciated quite well as a samurai would avenge his people after an enemy invasion, implementing well not only the arrival of the enemies you face, but also the actions and the how the secondary and tertiary characters as well as the protagonist Jin Sakai are developed. As for the development of the characters, you can get to see a good job, showing in a very realistic or better human way the different problems that develop within the game, in certain cases you can see certain decisions in which you think not They are the correct ones, however, I think it is a success since a character who always makes choices perfectly does not feel human, this also allows a good development of the main story, which I think has as its main purpose, to show the Like a war that devastated the island of Tsushima and what this triggers, it changes the behavior and thought throughout the plot, what I mean is that there is not a contrast only between the beginning and the end as usual pass in other titles, if not the characters evolve after each event in the game. Now changing the subject I want to highlight the incredible graphic section that the game presents, until I tried Ghost of Tsushima, I had never seen a graphic section that focused more on representing the beauty of the landscape than its own realism, although it is true that if you are looking well within the wide world of tsushima you can find textures that after you observe them for a while you realize that they do not look so good, I think that is not the end of the game, if not beautify the landscape with certain resources that seemed to me Incredible like the amazing movement of the lawn and sometimes multiple particles like the leaves or the lawn itself, while some games focus on incredibly detailed and practicing textures without any pixels, GoT focuses on lighting or reflection and on the movement of things like grass, which in my opinion give as a unique satisfaction and which I think was completely adequate to represent the great beauty of Japan. However, after all these great successes, it is notable that the biggest failure he has is his artificial intelligence in general, not only the enemies that many times can pass from you completely even if he is in front of them, which greatly affects the style of stealth combat, but also the artificial intelligence of the NPCs and their different patterns, many times it comes to feel that they are robots that when you pass in front of them they answer you with a calculated and perfect body movement, which can ruin in certain it forms the atmosphere that the game generates in places like towns or camps. As for more specific levels such as certain technical touches, more specifically the collisions which in my opinion should have polished them much more, it is a failure which I see as one of the most notorious, mainly the collision that the main character has with the slopes u some objects that houses the world, I feel that if they had taken a little longer to improve certain technical aspects it would have been a game that without a doubt would have deserved a 10. In conclusion, this is an incredibly good and much better game for people who love ancient Japanese culture, or the culture of war in general, however for someone looking for new and unique innovations or mechanics it will be a good game but it will not be a Wonderful
I really liked the scenarios, the story, I would like that they will improve the combat a little more I think that I lack a little in the modeling of the characters.
This game is everything you could want and more in a samurai game. It has good story, great game play, a beautiful open world to explore and the side missions are very good too, they feel like they mean something not just having side missions for the sake of it. Would very much recommend to anyone looking for a fun time and a satisfying, well told story


This is the first time I'm writing a review for a title so please excuse any nuances. It's an amazing game to be honest! Just completed the main story yesterday and I'm trying not to reveal any spoilers, but I'd recommend the game to anyone who's into ninjas or Japanese culture especially the samurai fights. The star highlight of this game is the one on one duel supplemented by an excellent storyline, cast, stunning visual effects and environmental effects and design. Kudos to the team for trying to pull it off. The only drawback to the game that I found was the second act lagged a bit, but otherwise the charecter development and npc quests that you can do, give a deeper understanding of the reason why people are attracted to the main protagonist Jin. All in all I'd recommend it as a must play. I also liked the organic way of way points and the minimal hud. Play the game and feel like a badass samurai on the normal difficulty or the recent update ups the ante with the inclusion of a super difficult mode for seasoned masochists
Ghost of Tsushima is a PHENOMENAL game. This game is worth your time and money. The games story and visuals are just beautiful. I’ve never been invested in an open world game like this one, because in this game I actually cared about exploring the environment and getting all of the side missions done. The characters are well written and same with the story. The gameplay is like a mix of Assassin’s Creed with a hint of Sekiro Shadows Die Twice. I personally recommend that everyone should play this game. The game does have some flaws though. But they aren’t major or really effect your experience. My first issue is that their isn’t a new game plus, and my second issue is that the game has a few bugs. But nothing game breaking. In conclusion, Ghost of Tsushima is a game that is worth your time and money.
This game is much better than it's individual parts. The setting and story might sometimes steer close to oriental romanticized stereotypes, but that doesn't matter: Moment-to-moment game play is _always_ rewarding, a merit that cannot be overstated enough in a time of topic-heavy games that fall short in interaction. If you like open world and feudal Japan, you will be entertained. Regarding the criticism that it doesn't capture Kurosawas artistry: how could it, his camera work was never in the audience's hands. You get to make the game look as close to the movies as you can. -1 for nearly complete lack of humor.

IT'S THE BEST GAME THAT I'VE PLAYED THIS GENERATION, THE GAMEPLAY IS EXTREMELY FUN AND THE COMBAT'S AMAZING. ANYONE WHO HAS A PS4 АND HASNT BOUGHT THIS YET IS MISSING OUT HARD
Ghost of Tsushima is amazing open world game Everything is gorgeous Great music and japanese voices, I love japan Exploring and combat is very fun You make me feel like real samurai, Sucker Punch - I love you guys
This game is incredible from the moment I started playing it to the moment I completed it I couldn't get enough. of it. if you have a PS4 and have not played this game yet you are doing a disservice to yourself. it is a must buy
One of the best game of all times I really enjoyed the story and it have great graphic too the lightings and shadows so realistic for a game like this I recommend to every body if they can try this game.
With some polish to the character movement, and small physics hiccups this game would be perfect. This game was a absolute blast from beginning to end. The story was engaging and emotional as well. One of the best video game stories I've come across.
Game of the year, really! OMG, I would love this game on PC! I could consider to by PS4 (I'm PC fanboy), but PS5 is comming soon, so... :/ I hope to see it on PC, this game is simply fantastic!
Gameplay is extremely fantastic. Although the game is long, but we never get tired of fighting with enemies or traveling in the world. The story is really beautiful, emotional and sometimes unpredictable. There are so many different ways to fight. It's possible to improve your specific skills and have your own special fighting style. So there is always a new thing to learn in fighting and you don't get tired of killing common enemies. And lot of positive points and strengths. I think the only negative

Graphically stunning, but a bit overuse of particle effects. The story isn't groundbreaking, but it's fun and above standard for video game narratives. I miss lock on targeting, but after some effort, I've stopped swinging wildly into the air with my sword. Otherwise, the combat, when mastered, flows like water. Completing a string of combos flawlessly and switching in to ghost stance is some of the most gratifying gaming I have experienced in a while.
Ghost of Tsushima is the first game that I have platinumed in years, though this doesn't mean it's the game is perfect game. Far from it. There is no denying the techinal achievement Sucker Punch have pulled off here. Getting GoT to run smoothly on a base PS4 is nothing short of astonishing, and aside from a few framerate hiccups towards the end of the story, its an incredible experience. The level of detail applied to the enviroment helps make it feel as close to photo realistic as the Playstation 4 is going to ever achieve. The way the grass flows in the wind, how Jin reaches down from his horse to feel the flowers through his finger tips as he rides. These small elements are moments of wonder that can't help but make you smile. The games photo mode does an excellent job of highlighting Tsushimas beauty, and in some ways becomes a mini game on its own. With so many filters, timescales and bokeh options applied, its hard not to stop at every cliff face to take "just one more photo". Loading and fast travel are incredibly fast. Weirdly infact. I can't be sure someone didn't slip one of these new PS5 SSD's into my console when I wasn't looking. If this is any indication of the future, then I'm sad to announce that people will be hearing from me less due to the reduction in for my loading screen ritual of picking up my phone. While the graphical achievements are clear for all to see, the story is where Ghost of Tsushima falls a little flat. For a game with such an intriguing and well acted antagonist, an opportunity is missed to delve far deeper into Khotun Khan. Having an almost 'Thanos' feel to him, constantly pulling strings in the background feels ominous and powerful, but the payoff doesn't match the journey. Jin's backstory and upbringing is fleshed out well through flashback cutscenes within the main story that help you invest more in the supporting casts decisions, but you never feel a true connection to anyone. The game pulls off only one real gutpunching moment, and it doesn't come from where you'd expect. Story wise, the game is essentially split into 3 chapters, You can choose to concentrate solely on these story missons and make a B line for the credits, but so much story and lore is missed through side chartacter development if completing the story is your only goal. its recommended you at least follow character arcs that you feel you have an affinity with, and the game does a good job of introducing you to the first of each of these through the main scenerio. The acting and motion capture is strong. It's no The Last of US, but it holds up well over Tsusima's 30hrs and never feels awkward or stiff. The overall gameplay is a mixed bag. The combat itself is strong, offering you 4 different unlockable stances to deal with different enemy variations. This makes the combat feel deep, and there's little more enjoyable in the game than switching between multiple enemies quickly while choosing the correct stance. On top of a boat load of unlockable techniques and passives, Jin will take upwards of 50 hrs to fully upgrade everything he has to offer. Unfortunately the variation of gameplay available can quickly become repetitve. Side quests are all too familar and always appear to end the same way. Liberating Tsushimas many mongol camps can be fun when fighting head on, but due to the games terrible stealth mechanics, approaching them silently all becomes a bit copy and paste. Enemy AI almost laughable while in stealth mode, which doesn't help anyone looking to fully immerse themseleves in this part of Japanese history. I doubt there was ever a mongol that chased a Japanese Samurai from 2ft behind, only to give up whilst being audibly confused, because the samurai entered a tent. saying this, one of the most notable features Ghost of Tsushima offers is the complete lack of UI, and it works wonders! With a swipe of the Dualshocks touchpad, Jin can follow the wind to his next objective, or become sidetracked by a small yellow leading him to one of the islands many mysteries... Fast forward 10 hrs, and the repetitve nature of the now highly annoying yellow bird appearing on your screen every 3 mins just feels like a game mechanic in itself. It becomes all it set out to destroy (I assume). The world loses its sense of awe and magic it has in its first few hours, mainly because this now stupid bird (You can't shoot it with an arrow by the way) never leads you to anything new. Its always another Fox Den, another Haiku, another Hotspring. You never feel like had you not followed tweety bird you would be missing out on a secret, and thats a shame. The premise is great, and works for a time, but i'm sure it will be improved upon by others in the next few years. Overall, Ghost of Tsushima is an enjoyable swansong for the PS4. What it lacks in gameplay variety, it makes of for in its sheer beauty and fantastic combat. Hopefully with a bit more fleshing out in a sequel, it can hit new highs.



Stunning. Reviews don't do this game justice. The sense of exploration is so natural and unobtrusive. The game let's you do what you want and it's so necessary these days!
I have no idea while the so callled "game critics" are giving this game anything less than a 9. This is not only is Ghost of Tsushima most beautiful gamenI have ever played , but it's my Game of the Year for 2020 and it's not even close.
Este juego es la hostia aunque le vo cierta similitud a asssins creed pero mas elevado en cordinacion y divercion enserio si lo quieres compralo ya no te arrepentiras el juego tiene una historia muy buena y una jugabilidad que te quedaras pegado al juego por horas

Amazing game , amazing story, amazing graphics, amazing content this game is just masterpiece.

My eyes cannot believe this is a game, I’m 23 years old and when I see and play this I feel the progress of an entire industry, this game makes me stop, feel the goosebumps and just enjoy the world. Is beautiful, there’s no other word. Even tho there’s violence in the game, sometimes I feel so peaceful. Thank you Sucker Punch, this is the game we needed in times like these
The story was fine but the open world are one of the best open world game i have ever played. And the combat is not new but is so good when it’s getting harder by time. The game worth to play and the 60$ for sure
This game had 0 glitches or bugs for me during my playthrough and while the main character is admittedly a little bland the world and the whole supporting cast are absolutely phenomenal 10/10
I don’t get the negativity, I really don’t. To me and in my opinion, this is truly fantastic. It’s exactly what I had been looking for with an open world game. The side stories and main story are captivating while the combat is fun yet forgiving. Not even to mention how god damn beautiful this game is. Well done everyone involved in the creation of this game!
By far one of the best games I have ever played. The story and the pacing of both main quest and side quest with the sporadic secrets and things to uncover felt better than any other game to date. I never once wanted to put the controller down I always wanted to see what was beyond the next horizon or forestland. Truly a masterpiece.

I am close to finishing the game of the year and I wish that I can't, I still want to be a samurai in a stunning world with very fluid combat plus a minimal and immersive UI and I simply can't hype up this game enough, you genuinely can feel a katana, the music and environment remind you of a Japan that you have never even visited, and this has delivered the best experience I've had in a very long time.. This is the way to terminate a legendary console, with arguably the best graphically designed game of the generation(competing with HZD and GoW) and a superb story, I give it a solid 10!
One of the most, if not the most beautiful Playstation exclusives I have ever seen. The Story is captivating, the lore is intriguing. The character development feels difficult, but rewarding. And above all the Story is impossible to put down. 10 out of 10, and cant wait to see this game beat the scores for The Last Of Us part 2.
Just bought it and i love it cant stop playing im not even playing the story mode I'm just. Exploring and doing side quests usually tgat bores me but not in this game.
Revenge Story done right. The game itself plays so amazing u really feel like a fearful Samurai.
I am five hours in to this game and I cannot cannot cannot stop. I do not get why the critics are giving this low scores. Graphics? Amazing (although not up to the last of us 2). Gameplay? So fun. Combat has just the right amount of hardness to it and is so fluid. Enemy AI can be pretty dumb but I found them decent, especially in the mini boss fights. Sound and art direction? Superb. Story? Well. I haven’t really gotten to play the story because I can’t stop wandering around. The landscape is gorgeous. The characters are cool. This is such a fun game. Imo this blows last of us two out of the water to be the best PS4 exclusive this year.

I completed the main missions of the first island and now I am doing all exploration and activities left before moving to second island. With that said, Ghost of Tsushima is the open world game I didn't know I needed. All the recent Ubisoft titles made Open world games super tiresome for me, the same formulas repeated over and over again. Sucker's Punch Ghost of Tsushima completed refreshed the genre. Combat is the strongest point of the game, it has some similar characteristics to the one found in Batman series, Spider-Man (2018) or even older Assassin's Creed titles, but the combat system here is refined at its finest, most of the bossfights (duels) are spectacular, remembering the thrill of From's Souls series, Sekiro in particular. Visuals are gorgeous, I was never a fan of photo mode in other games, but in GoT I used it for capturing amazing moments, you'll find yourself staring at the beautiful landscape while exploring. Exploration is good thanks to the almost non-existent indicators in the screen, you can remove even more with Expert Mode (which I did). All these factors combined means that you are actually looking at what is happening in the world, not some mini-map (learn Rockstar). Side activities are actually interesting, you're always getting something from what you do. The variety of these activities is not really big, but to me it works, because I like doing all of them. Sound and soundtrack are amazing, they know the balance of sound and silence. Japanese themed songs are great. The weakest point of the game is the campaign story. It's not bad, but at least for now it's bland and from what I've heard, it's just ok. Some people will not like this aspect but I don't bother because when I play open world games like this, the campaign is what I'm least interested at. Sucker Punch learned all the wrongs of past open world titles and created one of the best of PS4. Ghost of Tsushima is a must PS4 title. Ubisoft, here's what you should be doing in your games, just learn.
This is a great game from an excellent company. Ghost Of Tsushima is absolutely stunning visually, has very good combat and the story is absolutely immersive. Music and voice-acting are also top notch.
This is the most beautiful game I've ever played. While main mission are average, side quest are the best I've seen in a videogame since The Witcher 3: The Wild Hunt. Please, do yourself a favor and buy this game right now!
playstation done it again ive played every playstation exclusive and this is hands down the best best ps4 exclusive game and all time for me sucker punch keep giving us great games u deserve to be a 90 plus game but **** the critics ur game is the best ive ever played and all the 0-4s are xbox/pc fans and salty lou2 fanboys giving this fantastic ass game a bad score. sucker punch and playstation swan song was a banger
It’s a beautiful game, those who talk bad is because they know nothing about Japanese stories, they connect in a very good way the story of the game and the Japanese movies
This game is a masterpiece and is worth your money vote with your wallet people and buy this game and you'll get the bad taste out of your mouth from the last of us part 2.

One of the best games of 2020, we have waited too long and we got what we deserved a masterpiece of game. I would place it in the hall of fame games such as God of War. The game mechanics, the graphics, and the story splendid. If I would describe the game in three words it will be Ferocious, Glorious, and Tranquil.

It is a pleasure to taste Japanese culture in gaming. Sucker Punch successfully reflects the time period. Art and environment design is awesome. Gameplay feels the player as a samurai. It is not hard but you should get used to it. It is such a big step for Sucker Punch. Congratulations!
This game is exactly what the world needs right now. A game about an honorable hero with a greatrepresentation of ancient Japan.It also came out in th middle of summer when we usually dont get great games.The graphics are brilliant and this game is ashowpiece for Hdr displays .This is better than any assassins creed game and the combat is more enjoyable than Sekiro.Great sendoff for ps4.
This game is gorgeous. The combat is flowing and incredible. The attention to detail here is something to really be admired. The story is great and told in interesting ways. The smallest side mission is given attention and doesnt feel like filler. I love it all. I can't think of a game I enjoyed more that this one.
It’s one of the best open worlds ever build I’ve been playing for roughly 30 hours and I can’t get enough of it the stories great so far and the combat is amazing and makes you wanna keep playing

Beautiful, near impossible to put down, and just plain fun. It delivers on every level - audio, visual, gameplay... a perfectly fitting grand finale for the PlayStation 4.



A Fantastic game! Thank you so much Sony! Just play this game is awesome! Thank you so much!
Loved this game, beautiful world, great combat, great story, great characters and the best photo mode I’ve ever experienced. Seriously loved it. Loved the respect to Japanese culture aswell as the love for nature. Beautiful game and a beautiful end to the PS4. A must play for any PlayStation owner.

I really have no idea where to start from. Right off the bat, this game is an absolute masterpiece. The graphics are superb, environments, characters, lights, shadows, weather, everything thing in this game screams beauty. The gameplay is "FUN", the combat system is one of the most satisfying and it never gets stale. The story is a great historic fiction that is surprisingly very interesting and it kept me engaged throughout. I will definitely do another playthrough with Kurosawa mode. Clearly, Sucker Punch put incredible effort crafting this masterpiice and the result is basically game of the year! in conclusion, this game is worth every penny. This generation could not have ended better for Sony and Playstation 4.
I just finished the game, it was phenomenal. The story was amazing with emotion, epic moments, and a lot to do per mission. The characters were all amazing, with deep emotions and backstory. The graphics and gameplay are some of the best we’ve seen. And the last 2 missions were some of the best in video games. The final boss fight against the Khan was outstanding, and the final boss fight with lord Shimura was also outstanding. It was a beautiful game and story, hope they make a sequel. If they do, I’m calling it now, Ghost of Tsushima will be one of Sony’s biggest titles ever

Graphics are stunning some of the best graphics I saw in a game. The gameplay is also great, fighting stances are a really good idea. Story line so far has been great also. One of the best games I have played.

An absolutely fantastic game. Dare I say, the pinnacle of open world greatness. The world is absolutely beautiful and varies enough to not get bored. The combat is fluid and very intense. Every attack FEELS like an attack and isn't paperweight. The story is immersive and instantly drags you in from the first 2 hours. Only complain I have is that there is no lock on and it can get a bit weird with the camera angles but it is not enough for me to drop the game by a whole rating. Definitely recommend buying this.
By far one of the most fun and visually stunning games I have played in a long time. Ghost doesn’t try to reinvent much but instead of breaking something that’s not broken they refine and perfect a lot of things within the sub genre. Videos and streams do not give the visual impact of the environments justice until you play it yourself. Defiantly one of my favorite games of the year.
One of the best games I've ever played. I've seen people complain that the graphics aren't as good as the trailers that were released, but honestly I think it looks amazing, the style they chose is freakin beautiful. I played through the first time on normal difficulty and there were still parts where I needed to strategize because if I went in kunais blazing I would get worked on. Easily a 10/10 game.

Amazing... Captures that mystic era of Japanese lore that I have loved ever since I was a kid learning about Musashi and his incredible skills with the sword. If you really want to feel like a badass Samurai, there is no better game. The graphics and beauty are on par with red dead redemption 2 but combat is even better.. a must buy for anyone who enjoys open world adventure games.
El mejor juegos de samurais que he jugado y de los mejores que ha lanzado sony para la ps4 como siempre ps4 teniendo los mejores exclusivos

By far one of the best games I have ever played. I've been dying to fill this void in my heard for an open world samurai game and SuckerPunch delivered. Best combat system in any game I've played and incredible forever expanding world that I am dying to explore every inch of.


I had pretty high expectations for Ghost of Tsushima, and to be totally honest, it has so far way beyond exceeded those expectations in terms of story and gameplay. I am constantly surprised by this game and as soon as I think it is about to get repetitive, I learn something new. Simply one of the best games I have ever played.

I’m gonna make this review pretty quick. Ghost of Tsushima is the prettiest game I’ve ever played. The combat is very good and the character building throughout the game is incredible. Mythic tales become available and they were some of my favorite quests in the entire game. They lead you through some of the most beautiful areas ever created in video games and often end with the best rewards in the game. Now, the place where most criticism can be placed is the story. Although, I enjoyed it, I can see why some people would have issues, saying it’s the same revenge plot as always. However, it’s more about the adventure and building an army to fight for home. Jin doesn’t seem to have a ton of personality, although I found this reasonable as he was taught from a young age to control his emotions. Overall, I’d give the game a 10/10 score. My favorite PS4 exclusive and easily makes it into my top 3 games ever! THIS GAME IS A MUST BUY


The Game keeps a hold on you and doesn't let you go. Some of the camera movement is a bit dodgy inside tents, but otherwise the gameplay is incredible. The side-stories are pretty damn interesting as well.

Ghost of Tsushima is an absolute masterpiece. I consider myself an avid open-world RPG player. I have never found one that seems to have all parts correct. Ghost of Tsushima is the closest thing to a perfect Open-World RPG, that I have played, besides The Witcher 3. The combat is the most fun I’ve had in any melee sword fighting game, the world is absolutely stunning, and the photo-mode just adds a cherry on top. The minimalistic HUD and guiding wind are so tastefully done, and it works so perfectly with the world you’re thrown into. The inner turmoil of our protagonist, Jin, is exactly how you would feel a samurai would react to what needs to be done. It’s seriously the most beautiful game I have ever seen. If there is anything bad I could say about the game, it would be that I wish the Japanese VO matched the lips better. I think the voice actors did a great job in English though. Hat off to Sucker Punch. Your game does not deserve an 83 on Metacritic.
it is simply an amazing game with an gorgeous open world and in my opion the best graphics that I have ever seen on ps4 the combat is amazing and challenging the plot so far is pretty nice too. 10/10 would recommend

Visually stunning, and immersive gameplay that makes you feel like a total badass. Very addicting and so much more than an Assassins Creed clone like everyone thought it would be
Open world is packed with activities, combat is excellent for a game of this type, graphics are great but art design is even better. Story while nothing remarkable is well told with the use of flash backs and well fleshed out side characters. Ignore the entitled millennial reviewers spouting generic open world critisms... ive been gaming for 30 years, I have now alterior motives or agendas, and I can tell you this is one of the games of the generation




Amazing game superb story gorgeous visuals rewarding combat. Game has it all, light-years ahead of all other current games . Do yourself a favor and puck this one up.


What to say??? Just beautiful. The music,the atmosphere,the combat. The photo mode on another level. So much to explore,so much to love. Thank you sucker punch.
Esse jogo tem um dos melhores sistemas de combate que ja fizeram, história muito boa com várias referências e conteúdos da história do Japão. Os gráficos são impressionantes com muita cor e brilho. Infelizmente a inteligência artificial dos NPCs ficou a baixo do nível dessa geração e a câmera precisava ser melhor trabalhada
Excelente juego nada que decir, ambientación increíble, el modo de batalla muy bueno y gráficamente es excelente, sucker punch se lucio con este juegazo.
Great game, the storyline, the duels, collectibles, and side quests are all amazing. A great swan song for the last major first part game of the ps4 generation!
I have played 35+ hours in this game and believe me this games is of another level. Combat system is so fluid that you will be immersed in combat play style only. The best samurai game I have played.
this games is awsome, one of the best games of the year and one of the best of this consoles genaration, this game makes you really feel immersed in its universe go buy this game
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the greatest games of the PS4 generation. Mesmerizing, aesthetically pleasing, fluid combat system, and a great story. The Island of Tsushima is one of the most beautiful open world in gaming history.
Game is amazing. The minimal hud is immersive, landscapes are breathtaking, combat is simple yet has depth, and the story is beautiful. Very classical style of story with no hidden agenda.

Amazing Gameplay and Artstyle. Best exploration and open world. Combat is deep and rewarding when mastered on hard mode. Sucker Punch won my heart with this one.
A true embodiment of the Kurosawa style movies depicted in a video game, a truly atmospheric game. Totally recommend! My only gripes (minor): - Camera is too zoomed in, resulting in a very limited focus. I would love the ability to zoom out like in RDR 2 for example. - I would like the ability remove the bow from equipped weapons or store it on the horse. This is a personal thing, I think as it is it break the immersion to be jumping on roofs with a heavy samurai armour and a long bow equipped.. - This is due to hardware limitations most likely, but the graphics quality in the final game is lesser than the one showcased in the first (Masako) gameplay reveal. I really hope SP will take advantage of the ps5 power and patch this product of love and passion to unleash its maximum beauty.


The result of a studio that actually loves fun. This game is a breath of fresh air over a recent title that shall not be named, (but you know what I mean). The visuals are incredible, the music score is phenomenal, the story is well crafted, interesting and immersive and the combat is visceral, fun and satisfying. Congratulations to the dev team. 10/10 Also a bit of a warning, this game is getting downvote bombed by salty fans of that other game. All I can say to them is give it a chance and play a game that is actually fun. :-)

I love Japanese culture and this game captures it beautifully, the graphics are the best i have ever seen on a PS4, the sword combat is so freaking fun, i love melee combat, love the stealth, and love that you can go in wide open fighting, the environments are beautiful. The music is done with 2 composers that says something because it's spot on with Japan. Overall i have loved every sec of this game, as i love open world games, i love exploring and collecting and questing, only one tiny tiny complaint is the camera is a little to close to the character, just wish you could zoom out a bit, but other than that it's a masterpiece. Great job sucker punch you always deliver, at least for me that is :)


Actually a good game, do not trust corrupt critics reviews. Actually, they users that play the game represent a much bigger sample, so statistically speaking this represent with so much confidence what REALLY this game quality is.



Its a great game with some of the most fluid combat I have ever seen. The world is beautiful and engaging with something new around every corner. Definitely a goty contender.

Definitely a game of the year. Story is very good written, the visuals are on top - you want to take a screenshot every second. Fighting is the best I’ve ever played. This game is more Assassin’s Creed than the last 5 Assassin’s Creed games.
is just an outstanding cinematic and sounding game with a realistic rendition to original feudal japan. No SWJ, no identity politics, no gender issues, no weird lead characters, no agendas, no diversity, no store, no BS. Just a freaking good game out of the box. A lesson for all studios on how to focus on creating a simply great game. Sucker Punch take all my money.




The game looks and feels amazing. Great graphics, color and contrast. Combat is better than most games out there including SW: Fallen Order. The game is a Big Update on all open world games. Its innovative and removes the minimap for a cool new feature. Game is one of the best games out there right now if not the best this year has seen.

This game is amazing.Sound, setpiece, graphics are top notch.It might be a close sibling to AC, but it does not stay behind it's shadow that's for sure. Amazing game, 9/10.
Everything about this game is very well done. The story is compelling, the music is immersive, combat is fun and most importantly the graphisms are stunningly amazing. I would summarize my experience with this game in one word: fun. Unlike a certain company that decided to make a divisive game based on not having fun and destroying everything.
What a video game should be....fun. The story is wonderful and the side quests are engaging. The island is alive and the combat is a blast. One of the most beautiful games I have ever played...and I mainly play games on PC. This game absorbs the player into the world of the samurai. Professional critics will fault it for being "another open world game" but this is my game of the year so far. Everyone is so busy trying to change the world with their video games...Sucker Punch is just out here making games that are a joy to play. Well, spent money. This game took me to another world.

Ghost of Tsushima is the Assassin's Creed Japan game we always wanted...BUT BETTER EXECUTED THAN UBISOFT EVER WILL. Engaging emotional story and brutal smooth combat. Its a MUST PLAY. 9.7/10 for me!

Amazing game, I had high hopes for it and it exceeded them. I love it all around, not 100% historically accurate but a great representation of feudal japan. So many things to explore, smart way of guiding the player with the wind and animals like birds and foxes instead of out of place shining line on a minimap or on the ground. Great graphics and very traditional story with characters that feel real and not over the top. Great combat system and good variety, versatile skill tree. Easily became my favourite game ever.
This game is absolutely stunning an amazing with a allowing you to change to a black and white film grain to play the game through with English dub is so cool brings me back to my childhood of watching old Samurai movies listening to Wu-Tang. I was hesitant on buying this game after I got ripped off by buying The Last of Us 2 but it wash that trash right out of my mind I was so glad to start over with something fresh and new and amazing and this year 2020

Masterpiece.Imagine the gameplay of Uncharted 4 but in an open world in the medieval Samurai period of Japan.Climb to the highest peaks of the mountains,wander in a huge map,enjoy the beauty of the landscape,challenge your enemies on frontal assault or assassinate them without alerting anyone,discover many side stories,liberate towns and forts and make your legend known in all of Tsushima.Story 10/10,music 10/10,graphics 10/10,gameplay 10/10.The only negatives I can find is the poor AI intelligence,when they discover you if you hide they return in their original activities too soon and abandon search.But everything else is so good that you can past move it easily.A definate purchase for every open world fan and generally anyone.Thank you Sucker punch for this game.Please make another Samurai game exactly like this


This game makes you feel like a 13th century samurai. While not 100 percent pure and accurate to history it is by far the best samurai game to ever grace the video game genre. Think RDR2 but samurai. Perfect on nearly every level.

Beautiful open world where you can enjoy without any UI distraction (out of combat). Minimal UI during combat. Combats are fun and upgrading skills is so appealing because they are so cool! You are a hero in this game and it makes you feel good. Interesting details all over the place.
Deserves a higher critic score for sure. I think most has been said about the game, It’s not fair to compare to the 5 year old Witcher 3 but great horse controls and no sword degradation/micro management are huge quality of life improvements.
Ghost is a beautiful, action packed, scenic wonderland, and I’ve loved every minute of it! You can tell the amount of care and detail that went into making this game is immense, 10/10!

This is how you release a game last of us 2 was flipping garbage and mis written. This game is amazing I like to change camera filters for each combat to see how each looks. My fave is the one that makes me feel like I'm watching an old Japanese samurai film.
A masterpiece. Sucker Punch has turned quests that we're all tired of from other open-world games into actual storylines in the form of tales. What you do in Ghost of Tsushima's world doesn't feel like chores. Sucker Punch knows how to make games that are fun. Ghost of Tsushima is fun. Period. If this is your first foray into Sucker Punch games, it is highly recommended you try their Infamous franchise. Even the first Infamous still holds up in spite being a console generation old. This studio is very good with small details that reduce player fatigue i.e. removing animation for item pickup (I can tell games that will follow might copy this...remember Horizon? I love that game, gave it a 10, but picking up items was a drag) to more granular details like enemy AI looking back at a fallen comrade you just killed! Ungh just so good, Sucker Punch! Your attention to detail is delicious. Also, very smart use of budget. We all know facial animation is expensive to pull off, and so Sucker Punch pulled the camera back and highlighted the environment whilst exposition drawled. From a business standpoint, that is a good solution to budget constraints whilst keeping with the theme of Japanese cinema where most expositions and dialogue are surrounded by a sprawling environment. We love you, Sucker Punch. You make us proud.
I spend more time taking pictures than playing the game. That should tell you just how beautiful this game is! Perhaps the most gorgeous game I've ever played! Deserves all the praise it can get! Simply go buy it!

Truly a perfection of the open world formula. Combat is fun and the world is gorgeous and a treat to explore. Absolutely a fine end of generation game for ps4.
Ambientação incrível do Japão Feudal, personagens cativantes, e uma representação do código samurai nunca antes vista em nenhum jogo. Peca em alguns aspectos técnicos, mas mesmo assim não estraga a ótima experiência . Must play.
By far one of the best games I've ever played. Stunning visuals, awesome combat, awesome stealth, AMAZING soundtrack, excellent characters. Definitely my Game of The Year.




great visuals great atmosphere great combat and decent enough story what more do you want, and its has one of the best skill trees
Just so much fun! Can’t go wrong with amazing combat, incredible visuals, and a story with real value. Let me talk more about the visuals. They are stunning. Everything is crystal clear, and in extreme detail. Everything looks better than a movie, and like every frame was adjusted by an artist to look the best it possibly can.

Love the game , enjoy the combat and the way sucker punch captured the look and feel of the game, like a painting come to life . So far no issues that I discovered that would not let me give it less then a 10.
This game in my opinion is definitely a game of the year contender. The graphic isn’t the best at time, however the color choice they use for the environment really makes it’s extremely beautiful. Combat is difficult, which I do enjoy. This is not a hack and slash, as you have to be methodical with your attacks, but when you take out a group of mongol, you feel like a samurai doing so. The open world isn't the largest in my opinion, but definitely keeps you entertained. The story line so far isn’t to bad, I’m taking my time doing the side quest as this game is fun, so I really don’t want it to end. The stealth is all right, definitely not greatest, but that doesn’t make the game is any less fun. So if you’re looking for a very good open world samurai game, do yourself a favor and pick this game up. It’s worth it.


GoT is one of the most beautiful games I have ever played. The art direction is incredible. The gameplay is fantastic, and the sword fighting is one of the best I've seen in a game. I love samurai themed games and GoT is one of the best ever created. The game has its problems too, of course, a few bugs, yes. To be honest, I didn't really experience many bugs throughout the game, but there were some. The textures in some places are not that good and facial expressions could also be better. It clearly lacked polishing, but honestly, all of these "problems" are irrelevant in view of everything the game presents. It's one of the most fun games I've played in this gen.
This game is just amazing, all the landscape is gorgeous and unique, the combat incredible and smooth, the story really well done and has good characters, it's a blast to explore, believe me, exploring and fighting is the best thing to do in this game.
You batter buy this game because this game is awesome, I have been playing it for more than 2 hours now , and I am loving everything about it , just BUY IT
Such an amazing story telling game and I love samurai game but this one hits the note on actually being samurai game and the action and movement are amazing!
Love this game. It's beautifully made, has addicting/satisfying combat and good customisation. Been waiting for a good samarai game for awhile. My only nick pick is, I'm not fond of the leveling up symbol that appears in the middle of the screen after you execute someone, it gets in the way of the slow mo kill view.


The graphics, gameplay and story is great! The gameplay keeps itself from getting stale. The graphics are pretty good. And the story is good too but I wont spoil that I definitely would recommend you check out this game if you haven't!
I played the game on hard with no hud and my experience of the game is outstanding combat,visuals, and story really made my time worth playing the game a second time but the game did have minor bugs but it really didn’t affect my fun thank you suckpunch for a outstanding game




The game is truly incredible. The world, the characters, and combat are great. the feeling of just wanting to explore this world is something that I havent experienced in any other game other than BOTW.
Combat is tight. Don't button mash, you will bring great shame to your clan! Game is beautiful, not Red Dead 2 level beautiful, but still gorgeous. And the game is fun, a word Naughty Dog hates.

Incredibly good fun game and visually stunning. It's been some time since I've put in 10+ hours shifts on a game for 3 days straight but it's impossible to put down. Only cyberpunk change my mind on this being GOTY
This is a fresh and deep breath inside this clustered with wokeness and preaching gaming industry. It’s a must if you love Japanese history and aesthetics, but even if you’re a casual players — it is a bang for your buck.

Simply incredible!!! Beautiful graphics, amazing combat, many secrets to uncover, and great voice acting! No agenda and most importantly the game is FUN!!!
I have played this game for about 15-20 hours so far, I have only just finished act 1. Why? Because the game is so much fun I can't stop playing it AND doing side stuff! Not since God of War or persona 5 have i been so invested in a game, the combat is incredible, the story is pretty good and open world games normally have boring side missions, but here, even in the glorified "bandit camps" and stuff like that, it's still interesting. Literately the only thing I dont like about this game is climbing ladders because I often miss them
Atualmente possuo 22 horas de jogo em ghost of tsushima. Apesar de alguns problemas gráficos (que diga-se de passagem são muito poucos , como a física de um tecido bugando ou um inimigo com roupas repetidas) GoT entrega uma experiência muito sólida , com sua direção de arte de tirar o folego , combates engajantes e trilha sonora espetacular , além de que , a dublagem em japonês é muito boa e ajuda muito a você mergulhar na ilha de tsushima. Para alguém como eu que jogou jogos de samurai no querido e amado ps2 como , Way of the Samurai , e samurai western, este jogo é uma carta de amor a historias de Samurai e toda sua honra. Para um amante do japão, Cultura, religião, e é claro Samurais , este jogo faz jus a tudo aquilo amado por muitos. Não se deixem enganar por reviews que dizem que os gráficos do jogo são como da era "ps2" pois isto é uma mentira. GoT possui belos gráficos que fazem jus ao PS4 e lindos efeitos de partículas , além de um modo foto muito robusto que pode lhe fazer perder varias horas nele.


This is the first review I have ever written but I just could not let the dumbass critics get away with giving Ghost of Tsushima 83....83 WTF?? Like what are they comparing it too? Were they in such a hurry to score it that they didn’t even play much of it? Trust me, ignore them and just read the players comments on here and on YouTube videos and you will realise the critics take their job description to literally...they just like to be critical even when it’s not warranted! Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful game, immersive, thoughtfully done making playing the game very user friendly ie the combat flows and is like no other, travelling around the world is a pleasure, the wind system is genius and the side quests are genuinely interesting and you feel invested in saving Tsushima. I’ve played hundreds of games on multiple platforms over many decades and this game stands out and is the easiest 10/10 I have ever given. Do yourself a favour and play it, you won’t regret it!

One of the best games I’ve played in about a decade. Seriously addictive and extremely immersive!! Easily Game of the year, no competition, maybe except for Cyber Punk...
No tenia muchas expectativas en este juego, pero la verdad que al jugarlo desde primer día de lanzamiento no me arrepiento de comprarlo, es un juego muy entretenido, el sistema de pelea es sofisticado, el pero seria que no el modo sigilo el cual a mi gusto le quita diversión al juego. Si lo van a comprar jueguen en difícil de inicio pues en normal la dificultad parece que lo estas pasando en fácil, tiene puntos muy buenos, la labilidad,los gráficos se ven frescos, con paisajes hermosos los cuales varían según el clima. La historia es entretenida, espero y Sony continué con esta calidad en los juegos.

I Samouraï great game love Jin Character ,much love to Sucker Punch we really feel being part of world . i saw some fans of last month none sense reviewing down that game how cute. 36 hour's embargo can't stop good taste hard work and respect for your fanbase .
I'm literally mindblown by how much good this game is. At first I didn't expect much from a western dev making a game set in Japan..well, color me surprised. The art direction, the soundtrack and the gameplay are beyond excellent. I hope this game will win Goty cause it totally deserves it.

Amazing!!,The graphics and gameplay both wonderful!My favourite game so far it's fantastic i was waiting for a samurai game like this thank you sucker punch
令人驚嘆駐足的絕美景色，緊張刺激成就感十足的戰鬥，感動激昂的配樂，誠意十足的聲優演出和劇情。完美的武士風格開放式遊戲，絕對值得一玩！10/10
I read the Manga Vagabond, and this game is my gateway into being Mushashi. Gameplay is awesome, graphics are awesome, story is badass, and music is awesome. 10/10 game!
Jogo de samurai ao estilo assassins Creed que tanto esperava , gráficos lindos , trilha sonora incrível , exploração muito divertida. Recomendo demais.
GoT is a true GOTY contender. The freedom and open world sandbox are a breath of fresh air. Story and side quests are interesting and attention to detail is amazing. The game is simply FUN to play And i would recommend everyone to play it
The game is absolutely stunning and the combat never gets boring and to top it off it has an amazing stand off sequence. The stealth is ok but definitely does not take away points or make the game worse. The game is pretty difficult if you don’t know what you’re doing but as you progress and upgrade Jin, you truly feel like a samurai. The story was great and had a satisfying ending from my choice. Ghost of Tsushima is a must buy.
Wonderful graphics, nicely done music/sound, best melee combat seen in many years, good history and japanese culture showed on an immersive and gigantic open world. One thing is required to say: some users giving 0's to this game have some "xbox" ou "microsoft" variation in their usernames... don't waste your time reading these unfair reviews from people who doesn't get any good exclusives for so many time. TL;DR: This is a 2020 GotY great contender.
Ghost of Tsushima is basically "The Witcher 3" of feudal Japan, every quest, even the optional ones are totally animated and each has a different story to tell. The graphics look amazing and the combat is top notch, with weighty blows and tons of technics to learn.
ghost of tsushima es un increible video juego una maravilla audiovisual que cualquier amante alos videojuegos deberia probar la ambientacion es un papel clave en el titulo el cariño que sele ha metido ala obra la calidad en misines secundarias es algo que me a encantando como amante dela cultura japonesa lo recomiendo si te gustan esta clase de juegos espero les ayude mi reseña a futuros compradores

great game and story , and some morons that find it problematic well newsflash morons YOU are problematic or stupid cause nobody cares on your screaming or about what you are ofended , just stfu .
One of the best open world games of all time. Makes you want to explore every inch. One of the best and most rewarding combat I ever experienced! 10/10 Masterpiece (unlike the last of us part 2)
Wow amazing this game.. your never playing ?my answer Great Story,Great Combat and Great Graphic... Do it play now.. I hope get Game of Year 2020 and Sucker Punch good job... Thanks

Твёрдая 10ка ! Перед выходом игры переживал из за стоек в игре, думал будет слишком много кнопок, но по факту все оказалось очень удобно. Были переживание что будет очередной Ассассин, но по факту игра тебе флешбэками говорит что нельзя быть таким =) Красота неописуемая Схватки афигительные
Игра просто великолепная. Графика,боевка, система прокачивание. Все на высшемуровне. Разработчикам огромный +RESPECT

Отличная игра с красивейшим открытым миром. Ubisoft надо поучиться у Ghost of Tsushima как делать свои открытые миры. Игра без повестки и про нормальных мужиков!



I have been a gamer for more then almost 25 years now, been plenty of games that i loved. Never before did i submit a review on metacritic but i just feel like i have to speak on this amazing game. That alone should say something. Sucker punch hit a home run with this one, absolutely stunning game, beautiful visuals, the artistic vision for this game is spot on. If you love the samurai ninja theme then this game is like a wet dream. I remember being a little kid playing tenchu stealth assasins on my ps1, climbing rooftops sneaking around executing my enemies. Nothing after the tenchu series ignited that sprak for me. Now 3 generations of hardware later and they finally bring us a worthy samurai game and i couldn't be happier. I had zero expectations and went in fresh, but within hours i could already tell this was gonna be my favorite ps4 game so far. This game will take you on a journey through old feudal Japan fighting back at the mongol invaders as ons of the last of your clan. The Island is full of mystique and hidden areas. Hot springs, waterfalls, bamboo forests, hidden caves and settlements its all here, the artistic style with oversaturated colours are really really impressive. The combat is so well done, u need to be quick on your feet and adapt the correct stance for each enemy you face, its a thrill to be dodging weaving and parrying incoming attacks. Im playing on hard and its just so fun and punishing at the same time. The amount of content is amazing. So many skills te evolve and upgrade. Different skill trees for techniques, stances, special moves, ninja weapons like a blow dart with different poisons, short and long bow with a range of different arrows. Take my word for it this is a masterpiece and you will enjoy every minute you spend in this game. Sucker punch really put a lot of effort and love into this game and it shows. As of now my favorite ps4 game. Buy this game to support sucker punch because we need more games like this!! Im out
The game provides you the amazing immersion of the wonderful brutal and stunning journey of one of the last Samurai. Great and motivating combat, fun character development, and stunning island. Best end of the current console generation that you wish for. It's a Must-Play :)
Honestly it’s one of the top games this past decade maybe even the best. The story is amazing the combat is equally amazing and fulfilling its satisfying just to know you can get better each fight. It also truly fills like a movie
I don't write reviews much but this game is absolutely phenomenal, gorgeous, immersive, and stylish all flawlessly. It feels like this game was made for me, the combat is so smooth yet so weighty and juicy, the exploration is one of the best i've ever played, and the story and characters are both unique and original, and also a love letter to every great samurai classic. What an end to the ps4 generation, another exclusive masterpiece for us "ponies". One of the easiest 10/10's i've ever given.
absolutely beautiful game combat addictive and fluid sucker punch have listened to every bad thing in open world games and dine away with them great story and found my self most of the time walking around taking in the Beauty of the world 10/10 GOTY

Ghost of Taushima is the best game I have played on the PS4, so much so, that I felt compelled to make an account here and rate this game. Ghost Of Tsushima starts out strong, immediately putting you in the thick of battle, giving you a quick rundown of what the controls do, which is something that I appreciate when a game doesn’t hold your hand, especially with long, boring tutorials, and that is shown a bit later in the game when you actually get to do their tutorial, which they make enjoyable by creating a beautiful scenery and giving you a bit of story and lore about your character, Jin Sakai. I haven’t found the story to be anything incredibly special, however it does its job well at achieving what it wants to portray — a samurai warrior having to adapt to his enemy in order to survive and reclaim his home, even if it means going back on his code of honor. Leaving the story aside, the game looks and sounds absolutely fantastic. It was the first game where I felt compelled to put down questing and just go into photo mode(which is incredibly detailed and favours exploration) to take screenshots every 10 minutes or so. Yes, the game has that many distinct, beautiful locations. You will never get bored of exploring in this game. The ambient sounds are beautifully done, as well as the combat sounds. It truly does its job in immersing you in the game. Of course, it has its flaws, nothing is perfect, and while it didn’t really bother me, the main protagonist might sound a bit dull at times, somewhat like a Connor from AC3, while the rest of the voice actors seem to do their job pretty well. You have a lot more emotion from the japanese main character’s voice actor, however the lip syncing is made for the English version, so that might throw you off. Moving on to gameplay and animations, this game delivers as well, albeit with some flaws. Exploring is a big part of this game, so the controls really aid you here as they feel smooth and well polished. The combat is very well done and tons of fun, and really delivers at making you feel like a badass samurai. However, I’ve found the difficulty curve to stop evolving as you learn the enemy moveset and different stances and earn some upgrades. In Act 1, at least I felt the need to crank the difficulty to hard as I was able to just fight 10 people at once if I used everything in my arsenal. By Act 2, new enemy types were introduced, which meant I had to learn new moves again, which made the game challenging again, but then, same story. Not a bad thing by any means, as this only proves the game rewards exploration and learning mechanics. The downside to the combat is the camera work and the lack of a “lock on” type of feature, sometimes the camera will zoom in too much if you’re in a tight spot and you won’t see enemies properly, or when sneaking into tight spaces it might set you off. Animation wise, the game does a decent job, with some animations clipping through objects, such as when walking in different terrain types. Also, I’ve noticed that, when riding/walking through bamboo forests you just clip through every tree. I’m not sure if this was done on purpose to sort of trick the player when riding on a horse that he managed to squeeze through a narrow gap, or it’s just a bug. One final thing that I will talk about that stood out to me is the attention to detail. The fact that you have no HUD apart from your Health and Resolve while in combat means you have to have enough detail for the player to be able to catch on to certain things, and the game does just that. They even do that with your character’s “special moves”, those are like your abilities in AC Odyssey, if you will. Except, you don’t just unlock them and slot them in and then you use them. The game goes even further and basically gives you a quest, which involves you searching for certain things, and it always culminates with a badass duel or epic fight where your characters acquires said ability. This really caught my attention and I enjoyed it tremendously, since it helps immerse you even more. All in all this game is worth every penny, and the developers did an amazing job at creating a samurai open world game where you can really see the beauty of Tsushima island and feel like you’re part of its background. While having a few oddities in terms of camera and animations, there’s a lot of other positives that make this game truly special, and even if you’re not a fan of japanese culture this game will reel you in and you’ll learn on the go.
Way Better than the Last of us 2. This game deserves game of the year because of how well the combat system is. Its fun, challenging and the upgrade system is truly rewarding. Its story is really good and I honestly think this game is worth the 65 dollars I paid. WIsh I could say that about the last of us 2 but I can not. This game is has it all. It feels like Assassins creed 2 on steroids. And I love the ezio trilogy so for a direct comparison is hard to come by. It deserves a 10/10. Amazing game sucker punch knocked this one out of the park.
Great scenery, close to Japanese tradition that even the Japanese critics praise it for that. That together with the Assassin's Creed vibe in an open world creates a really stunning gameplay and the graphics are on a whole new level! I've stopped and paused many times during the first few hours to just marvel at it all. This is entertainment at it's best. This is exactly what gamers want. It's only a pity one cannot trust these review scores because there are a lot of angry REEEEE SJW's that are extremely salty over the fact that everyone is of the opinion tlou2 was just absolute trash/garbage and a dumpsterfire on every way you look at it. The story was trash, the ID-politics were an absolute cringe-feast, Buffy the feminist made no sense, she's bad until she finds the last Airbender that needs to fight the fire nation and it was so depressing that probably half of the gamers afterwards took the pharmacies by storm for some prozac. Naughty Dog totally missing out on why gamers play games or why it's called the entertainment industry in the first place. I'd advise you to go through the negative reviews here and see how many of them unsurprisingly gave tlou2 a 10 and Ghost of Tsushima a 0, which tells you all you need to know that they are just trolls. Wouldn't even surprise me if the majority of them are from salty Naughty Dog employees that can't stand all the hate their game got and how objectively bad it really was; certainly if you compare it with Ghost of Tsushima which is probably a title for the history books and deserves the title 'epic'.
The best game of ps4 for me. japan samurai with the great music. i love this game , it remind me what i memory when child. for me: graphic - 10/10 Background music - 9/10 Action - 10/10 game style and japan element - 10/10 total for me: 9.8/10 thank you suck punch. Where is the next great samurai/ninja game?
This is an excellent game, advanced combat, great narrative, outstanding visuals. Game is also moderately long and is worth your money. Highly recommended.

For a japanese culture fan this game is absolutely amazing. Exploration is great, surroundings are astonishing, the combats are tense and challenging (even in normal mode), the story is engaging. A must play for all players.
A best game on Ps4 ever with breathtaking world,Smooth battle system,diverse combat,beautiful customized clothing. Camera system is Excellent!!! Every picture we made is breathtaking and this is all for players This game is incredible beauty,definitely Masterpiece and get GOTY this year

This game has a taste of a good old samurai movie. +Combat mechanics +Weather,nature events,color palette +Charming atmosphere,Story and quests +ps4 pro performance in higher resolution mode.It really seems smooth for a 30fps game. -Its minor for me but some texture/details are not good in some areas,like water and rocks near water.


If you like a grounded samurai fighting game this will be a must buy for you also the game is beautiful and has an amazing photo mode the world of Tsushima is just so distracting that you can sometimes get lost in either side content or chasing a fix to unlock new charms or overall just being immersed into the world this a day 0 buy and you shouldn’t miss out sukerpunch really did a good of giving an open world experience with so much variety and amazing things to do
This game is definition of a moving colorful artistic painting that does an amazing job of showing Japanese environments which makes you want to enjoy every single second. The wind mechanic that leads you to your destination is very cleaver From sucker punch because it makes exploration more fun to make the player focus on visual clues like birds to lead to a mission and I have not seen many games trying it . It’s the best samurai/ninja ever created because of the amazing fluid combat system that’s so satisfying that’s makes you feel like a samurai and also with many cool detailed customization. There is some technical problems such the character going through some trees but it’s most has to do with ps4 hardware limitations which is expected in open world games for such an ambitious game or maybe the developers have a plan future patch to fix it. The game loading time Is so fast for an open world game which is an amazing technical achievement by the developers. The story has a great plot of exploring Jin internal struggles of abandoning his samurai code which was a serious offense in Japanese culture at that era and find a new way to save his people from the mighty mongols empire that happened to be strong for the Japanese. I really like the characters especially Jin who is a calm intelligent badass. Overall I had so much fun in this game since far cry 3. It’s a game of the year in my book.





Игра просто шикарна особенно начиная со 2 акта. Предзаказал и прошёл на среднем уровне сложности и уже начал второе прохождение на харде с включённым режимом Курасавы и с японской озвучкой. Всем любителем псевдоисторических игры и особенно японского сэтинга рекомендую.
I love this game. The combat, the visuals, the upgrades to the character, side quests, mythic quests. Everything makes me feel I want to play this game more and more. Currently in act -2 about to unlock the moon stance. GTG, can’t stop playing Ghost of Tsushima .... definitely my game of year

This game is beautiful, regardless what anyone says GOTY for me. Story is fun and amazing and the side missions as well.
This is my first review but I am completely prepared to review other games that I truly enjoy in the future. I’m About 20 hours into the game, I believe at least and this is the first game I actually felt compelled to write a review for because I want to see this game thrive and be a part of that so sucker punch sees this reception of their product and other companies see the refinements they have made on open world immersion and the gaming industry as a whole continues to put out great quality products like this. I do not know how the story ends but personally I am very immersed into it, I just got to the second area of the map and completely liberated the first area yesterday and I plan to progress even further today, even though I watched reviews and knew that the straw hat ronin were an enemy in the story when I actually played that completely slipped my mind so when the twist of Ryuzo joining the mongols reared it’s head I was genuinely shocked and invested in jin taking him down where he stood. This is the first game story wise I’ve gone in completely blind into (other than gameplay and enemy types of course) and I’m so glad I did I cannot wait to see how this tale concludes and if the legend of the ghost will prevail.
This game might be one of the best games I've ever played. The fictional setting in 13th century Japan is amazing and incredibly immersive. The attention to detail and historical accuracy is outstanding. The gameplay is a clever mix of many different genres but with a lot of unique and interesting additions relating to the culture and style of the Samurai. The sword combat blew my mind, it's so complex and yet so much fun. Story, music and graphics are top notch, but most importantly the art style is incredibly beautiful and atmospheric. The love the creators had for ancient Japanese culture is extremely palpable.. I highly recommend everyone to set the language to Japanese audio with subtitles, it truly feels like you're playing an Akira Kurosawa movie. The game even offers a "Kurosawa setting" that let's you play the game in a black & white cinematic mode, I haven't tried it yet because I initially wanted to see it fully colorized, which is totally worth it, but now that I fell in love with this universe I think the Kurosawa mode could be pretty amazing actually. This is a must play for anyone, even if you think you're not interested in Japanese culture, after this game, you definitely will be. The game transcends genres, it's a true work of art. 10/10
I do not usually give 10/10's. Even some of the most amazing recent games like Marvel's Spider-Man, God of War, etc. have all been 8 or 9 out of 10's to me. This game, however, is a 10 out of 10. It's one of the few games in recent history that feels whole and complete, instead of rushed and missing large swathes of cut content. Let's start with the story. The story is by far the best part of Ghosts of Tsushima and not just the main story. The main story has a beginning, middle, and end that keep you hooked the whole way through. The story of the Samurai who falls...or...perhaps grows into something new? It's hard to give too much information without spoiling it, but suffice it to say the game is chock full of amazingly well written moments, amazing dialogue (both in english and japanese, I can vouch for each one and they are both amazingly voiced), and plenty of emotional moments that will twist your gut with the pain of loss. Even the side quests are amazingly written. I'm going to spoil a couple, but I'll be sure to save the best side quests. For instance, you stumble across a wounded bandit on death's door and prepare to put him out of his misery. Only once you've approached, however, do you find out that he was forced to be a bandit and that all of the fallen bandits around him were his doing. He left them to return home and they slaughtered his family. He asks for your help in killing the rest of them at their nearby camp. Jin agrees and the two of them storm the camp cutting down every last one of them. As the last one falls, the man collapses and asks Jin to bury him somewhere away from the filth of the bandit corpses. Jin agrees and the man thanks him once more before passing on to be with his family on the other side. This is just a simple side story. Another example of a great side story is stumbling across a tavern being attacked by "bandits" (I won't spoil this). This happens completely randomly and you find yourself running up to the tavern and slaying the bandits, but not before most of the people have been wounded or killed. You find the owner mortally wounded and she asks something of you just before she dies. This side quest is her final wish given with her last breaths. Now let's finally talk about something besides the story, the gameplay. The sword play here is amazing. You have four stances (three of which you unlock throughout the game by killing Mongul leaders or observing them. You can actually get two points towards progression if you observe them first and then kill them, though you must find them without alerting the rest of the camp to observe) each of which is better against a certain type of enemy. Alongside that you have a few Iai skills, an amazing parry system, a fluid combo system and many special attacks you can unlock through the skill progression or through the Mythical quests that teach you legendary sword skills. The stealth is also quite well done with a large number of tactical options to clear an entire enemy camp before they even realize you're there, or to capitalize on their awareness of your presence by striking fear into them particularly dirty and terrifying tricks. Here's where I want to set expectations for someone, because my expectations nearly ruined the game for me. This is not a game where you can choose to roleplay either an honorable samurai 100% of the time or the underhanded ghost 100% of the time. You will be forced to assume both roles throughout quests. This is a story about a samurai who falls from grace and learns that honor is not worth lives when you can use dishonorable tactics to save your people. As such I roleplayed what I called the "canon" Jin by the end. I tried to force the game to let me be honorable 100% of the time but there are too many forced stealth sections due to hostages or other things. Then I slowly started to rely more and more on that stealth or those dirty tricks even during combat and found that it really opened up the game for me to mesh the two playstyles together instead of treating them as a binary 1 or 0. This is not inFAMOUS. This is not a Karma system where you must commit to one. Instead, enjoy your fluid ability to swap freely. Last but not least is the music, visuals, and sound design which are all amazing. The Kurosawa filter makes the game truly feel like an old japanese samurai movie and adds a ton of character, but I would save it for your second playthrough. The visuals of this game are too gorgeous to miss out on by muting them with monochrome. The brightly colored vistas, fighting under a red leafed tree, or in a field of purple flowers, etc. is just too beautiful to be ruined on your first playthrough. Plus the Kurosawa filter mutes and muffles audio, which is another place where this game excels. The music and sound design are top tier. Alright, I'm just about at my character limit so thank you for reading this far. This is definitely my GOTY and I hope you enjoy it too.

The Playstation 4 swangsong couldn't be better. Sukerpunch delivered a completly round game. It's not the most innovative piece of media, but it's without a doubt the best piece of entertainment that Playstation delivered this summer. Let the games be games.




I have fallen in love with this game. It may not push graphics as far as other games like TLOU II, however, what it lacks in graphics far makes up for it in the atmosphere. The game is just beautiful. The sounds, music, and scenery come together to provide an experience unlike any other I have experienced thus far. This game brings some really fun features, like the dueling which is so much fun and never gets old. I feel like I am the main protagonist in an old Japanese samurai movie which to me is awesome. So far this year it is my favorite game and my runner for game of the year.

My favourite game for 2020. I've played around 20 hours already, and the game just keeps getting better and better. Strong suits are the combat. It never gets stale, and is so much fun. Exploration is a huge plus as well. They did a good job of making sure that the different areas aren't too big or small, and there's plenty to see and do. Characters are compelling too. I am interested to see where their story goes. I am hooked and can't put the controller down. It's been a long time since I've felt this way about a game. Highly recommend.
Incredible game! Finally a true samurai title that’s everything I could’ve asked for, I’m not much of a completionist but I’m finding myself exploring every nook and cranny to find all the amazing things this game has to offer, amazing combat, I personally love the stealth, the takedowns are BRUTAL, and the story is incredible and has weight. Amazing job sucker punch you have made me a massive fan
After playing hours of the game so far I can say with certainty that this is an amazing game. There are a few minor hiccups that I've noticed and one major issue that I've had at least. I'll start with positives firstly, the combat flows exceptionally well the changing of the stances works (most of the time) second, the story although I haven't gotten through the whole game what I have seen is very good and my last major compliment is that it's visually stunning I play on a PS4 pro with a HDR TV and it shows HDR really makes this game pop the color and lighting are rather breathtaking without HDR as well. Now on with my complaints with the game most are nit-picks to be fair. The horses running animation looks a bit wonky stealth is rather easy but suitable for the game there isn't a way to turn off tips which can be very annoying if you accidentally hit the wrong enemy with the wrong stance and the whole game freezes and calls you stupid I've gotten this even after hours of playing it'd be nice to add the ability to turn off tips in a patch. Now I have a few other gripes like during a certain rescue mission I was unable to climb a climbable surface and the fact that the standoff button doesn't work all the time but other than that there's only one huge complain that will round off my review. During combat if you mess up you're dead, fair enough however I on multiple occasions have clicked the switch stance button R2 and nothing happened it actually happened twice in a row killing me almost instantly if this were my fault it wouldn't be a big deal but this was 100% the game on a related note what makes this even worse is the parry button is a bit finicky especially on spearmen. However this isn't the worst thing in the world especially since the loading times are insanely fast but it did make my experience with the game slightly less valuable.
One of the best games I've played in my life, the history is great no agenda here, graphics are amazing for me it's the best of this generation, gameplay is awesome, I remember playing witcher spending hours on sidequests because sidequests were rich and very cool to do, its the same thing in this game and even more
Really fun game. Took time for me to get used to the controls. It’s so satisfying to take out 5-6 bad guys without taking a hit. There’s some technical issues with the game and no sound hiccups. It will also get repetitive. Not a 10 but definitely goty contender.
I’ve never enjoyed another game ever since I played the Witcher 3 until I played Ghost of Tsushima. Kudos to Sucker Punch for creating a masterpiece.
One of the best games I played this generation. I cant get enough of being a badass samurai. I get lost in the beauty of the game every-time I turn on my PS4. potential Game of the year fo me. This is a must play.
One of the best games I've played on the ps4! Actually I didn't want to give the game a 10 bcuz it's not a perfect game in everyway, but still it's near perfect and 9 wouldn't be enough for what this game offers in my opinion so I gave it 10 bcuz it's above a 9 or even a 9.5, one of the best open world games, it's has a wonderful combat system and gameplay mechanics and a great story with a real good ending and a REALISTIC samurai/ninja Japanese game unlike assassin's games ,and it has great visuals and graphics I think this is one of games that no one can disagree that it's not a good game loved it!

Most beautiful game I've ever played in regards of the scenery. No matter how many times I fight in the game it makes me come back for more. Exploring the areas never get boring at all because of the scenery. Really enjoying the game. 6 hours in and still on act 1 doing side quest for the sake of a new hat.

Ghost is an amazing game! It respects japanese culture and makes you legit feel like a samurai. The game is a masterpiece not perfect but it deserves a 10 just because it is a special game, it pulls you in and is a complete blast to play, the graphics are insane, especially with hdr, and the art direction has to be the vest ive ever seenin a gamr. You owe it to yourself to buy and play this, if you like the witcher or horizon then you will like this game!
El mejor juego hasta la fecha basado en el japon feudal. La mejor recreacion de la cultura samurai. Ambientacion sublime, combates muy divertidos y adaptativos, y la version en japones subtitulada conaidero que es la mas acertada. Un acierto enorme con esta nueva IP.

This is a great game that brings enough of its own identity to many of the, admittedly familiar, core aspects. A handful of few minor drawbacks mean that my score would more accurately be a 8.5. Graphics The good: Stunning artistic style combined with fantastic scenery and great lighting, including beautiful variety in the day night cycle. Possibly the best photo mode I've used. The bad: They are a handful of poor textures here and there, rocky surfaces in particular. The game works best when you're surrounded by grass, trees and foliage. My main gripe is when looking at things in the distance, usually from a vantage point. It's doesn't happen too often but sometimes land in the distance looks very flat and one tone, with almost no detail. It really sticks out. For example a yellow field of flowers, from up on high, looks like a bland brushstroke of paint. Sound The good: Excellent sound effects and a great, authentic sounding soundtrack. The bad: There's some lip-syncing that's off if you use the Japanese VO. Combat gameplay The good: I was worried that the combat would feel like W3 or the recent two AC games but I was very happy to find they've given combat it's own feel. Combat is quick and brutal. It's somewhat like a much easier version of Sekiro, with you and your enemies doing a lot of damage but with a 'guard' bar to break down first, unless you strike directly after a dodge, in which case you can usually get one hit in. Another bonus is that there are quite a few tools to use (Kunai, stun bombs etc) that allow you to express yourself in a greater variety of ways. Stealth works well but is like many other games in that respect, although it should be noted that they've given the player a lot more room for how they move around areas. In addition to the usual 'tall grass, walls and boxes' you've got many ways of climbing over and through buildings, along with crawling under them and popping out through trapdoors, squeezing through gaps and entering through small hatches. There's a large amount of skills to choose from, so there's several different playstyles to choose from. The bad: Even on hard, the game's just too easy. Apart from the initial learning curve and times I wandered into strong camps early on, there wasn't too much difficulty once I was used to the systems. As you progress and gain levels and equipment, it just gets even easier. It's a shame because I can see plenty of room to make it harder without needing to come close to Sekiro levels. Stealth in particular is overpowered, with enemies giving you plenty of leeway in terms of when they spot you. The camera doesn't always play nice either. It doesn't happen too often and it's mainly in smaller areas and when you're fighting more than 2 enemies that it can be a nuisance. Other gameplay: Though the map isn't huge like AC Odyssey or Witcher 3, there's plenty to do and, as is usual, lots of collectibles - though almost all of them enhance your character in some way so it's much more satisfying to find them. Activities include scenery traversal and a button sequence mini-game. Side-quests often have little stories that make them feel natural and most are quite entertaining and help flesh out the protagonist's personality and, indeed, that of the game itself. So yeah, I'm really enjoying this game and hope that perhaps they'll patch in another difficulty setting or some kind of mode that makes things more deadly. There are lots of quality of life elements too. You can collect things while racing past them, whether on foot or galloping by on your horse. No need to dismount and hold a button while a little time-bar fills up. Fast travel is plentiful, though I often just rode wherever I needed to go in order to soak in the atmosphere. I appreciated the waypoint system too, left the screen less cluttered and it looked beautiful.
Everything is outstanding, from the main story to side quests they don't feel like a chores like other games. Tons of customization and skills you'll be able to do and it depends on what gameplay you'll want. Graphics is great all the scenery will make you love more Japan. Best samurai/ninja game that I've played.
Absolutely stunning visuals and absolutely beautiful story. Would recommend without a doubt to anyone. The ending is satisfying and the beginning is gripping the same goes throughout the story.
This game is pretty awesome this is great a end for the PS4 exclusives....this is a must play game.Those who like games like samurai,action you will love this game.....the kuraosawa mode is pretty awesome the story line is great...I loved the graphics of this game...
This game is Absolutely Amazing the graphics the combat best PS4 Exclusive I’ve played massive respect to suckerPunch for making this masterpiece highly recommend had so much fun so far the Side missions and Exploration is just wow
Amazing game! I've got completely lost in this game and it's beauty all weekend long. Compelling main story and side quests, beautiful open world, awesome cosmetics, and some of the best samurai combat you could ask for. Also the duels are the best! Favorite game since RDR2.


Best looking game ever! Not even my RTX 2080TI gaming PC have better and more beautiful visuals than Ghost of Tsushima. Best samurai game ever and one of the best open world games out there.
Шедевральная игра, просто лучшая в которую я играл за всё время!!!
amazing graphics, fun campaign and quests. Smooth combat. Interesting characters, the main is a bit dull but that is what I somehow expected from a samurai. This game meets all my high expectations 10/10 and might even replay it. Only the Witcher 3 and Oblivion have made me do that!!

Ghost of Tsushima is a outstanding samurai adventure that often left me speechless with its visual staging and excellent combat. Deserves higher ratings on game magazines...
Can't stop playing! This game has awesome atmosphere of being the samurai, interesting combat, good story and gorgeous graphics. Goty for me so far. 10/10
The Ghost of Tsushima manages to offer an immersive open world game with graphics that can only be described as movie-esque. I acknowledge that it is a romanticisation of Japan but it did a damn good job at convincing me that this world or timeline could have been real. The game also manages to do what many games before it have not. That is to recognise that ,we, the player are not kids anymore and that we can figure things out for ourselves. While it seamlessly guides us towards places as we journey across Tsushima. Almost like a companion.


Beautiful game with amazing graphics and gameplay. The game encourages players to take side quests and the story is great as well. Sucker punch has managed to make players feel like samurais. Way better than the trash last of us 2.

This is easily and by far the most amazing game of the year, a must play. The graphics are superb, the story is very well presented and the gamrplay is challenging enough to keep you engaged until the end.
One man's struggle to abandon his ideals and honorable ways of Bushido, a warrior's code, to embrace the ways of the nefarious and evil assassin, the dark path of the Ninja. Beautifully portrayed and highly accurate historical Japan depicts the tale of a man desperation to protect his homeland and rally those to his cause, You are Jin Sakai - a noble samurai lord caught in a desperate losing battle against an impressive and overwhelming Mongol invasion. The enemy knows the samurai and his tactics, they have modeled their warfare in chaos and dirty tactics, nothing noble about them, and how does one fight when fighting against a foe whose model of war is based in guerrilla tactics? You become a member of chaos yourself. A Shinobi. A Tengu Warrior. Ninja. This is what a Ghost of Tsushima is all about. Foes and allies will deter from your path, friends and foes will differ on your tactics and the story will take you to twist and turns. The soundtrack will immerse you from the composer of Jet Li's Fearless, and as you embrace the way of the samurai and fight your enemies with honor, the more colorful and brighter the weather will turn. The darker and dirtier you dispatch your enemies from the shadows, the way of the ghost, the darker, rainier the weather will turn. Signaling the storm that comes when Jin's Ghost persona is fully embraced, also signaling the historic typhoon that drove and destroyed the Mongol's impeding naval fleet. The divine wind - Kamikaze. All real. All historic. This is Ghost of Tsushima. A better game, no woke drama, no hidden and secret characters or personal agendas, no golf clubbing. A deeply satisfying game that TENCHU and SHINOBIDO fans were looking forward too over a decade, what Ubisoft could not or willing to deliver, Sucker Punch did. This is a buy and keeper, with lots of replay value. The Ninja Game you were waiting for in this generation and that few have delivered. Get it.
Wow what a great game truly is winning bigly had a solid story unlike another recent game, the game is also one of the most beautiful I have ever played and is currently my favorite game of 2020
This game is a masterpiece with a good story and a beautiful open world, I only complain about some missions that can become somewhat repetitive but after all it is a game of excellent quality with a good open world, greetings from Chile :)
This game is excellent, I’m having so much fun playing this and I am about 20 hours in and really enjoying the story, combat and exploration with it, side quests are great too and don’t feel like bloat at all, I’ve not been bored once! Thankyou suckerpunch for nailing this one! Gotta get Back to playing it now!
Amazing. Plays similarly to Shadows of Mordor and AC but has gritty realism and responsive tough but fair combat. Abilities unlock along the way, giving you tons of ways to slaughter people. Immersive as hell. Must buy
The game is fun, the combat system is complex but easy to understand and story 10/10 the bad thing is the mission that become repetitivo after a while, im general is a very good game
Breathtaking visuals and cinematic combat. Got goosebumps on several occasions when playing. Only a few bugs and some repetition in quest structure. This is the lone wandering swordsman simulator I have been waiting for!


Thank you for focusing of Making a Game instead of injecting Politics like The Last of Us 2. I must say, My expectations were lower for this game but I am glad i was wrong and turns out to be an amazing game. The Graphics the Gamplay,The Story The Explorration,amazing. not to mention they recreate the Japanesse culture and history wirh respect and immersion..is not only the best Samurai game but also one of the best games overall so far. I hope we get see more os suckerpunch in the future maybe a Ghost of tushima 2? or sengoku jidai game?
Its really outrageous what part of the gaming press is trying to do, to shape the gaming industry according with its own interests and concepts about what games should be. Ghost of Tsushima is suffering with biased reviews, made by writers who are in an open conflict with AAA developers and studios and who are pushing to smaller and linear games, boycotting open-world games. Not every game needs to be 100% original and innovative and many times all that need to be done is good execution of well-known and accepted ideas, that are demandes by the market. By players that do like AAA open-world games, the way they are. That its the proposal of Ghost of Tsushima: to be an excellent AAA open-world game, with the elements and concepts that, yes, you already found in other also good AAA open-world games and that a large part of the gaming market wants to play. There is absolutely nothing wrong with that. And players should not be judged or pushed to like or dislike a product for entertainment based on an agenda.
Un juego muy divertido y unos de los mejores de la generación actual, ni xbox sabe sacar juegos así será mejor que aprendan de los estudios de sony.
对马岛之魂，我玩到的第一个完全东方风格的主机游戏（我玩的主机游戏比较少），一进去游戏就是各种拍照，真的太美了！
This was my most antisapated game othere then cyberpunk and it lived up to the hype. A beautiful open world amazing vibrant colors and a japanese setting made this game so awesome. Story was suprising in most moments and not ****



An absolutely incredible game. Very solid gameplay, an engaging story, and the sheer beauty of it is enough to make you stop what you are doing and just take in the world Sucker Punch created with so much love. If all developers were like this, instead of trying to force political ideologies down your throat... This is what gaming should be: fun, creative and absolutely beautiful. Do yourself a favor and buy it!

Un juego hermoso, ambientacion, historia, graficos, etc sin duda el mejor de la generación mucho mejor que the lust of us 2, honestamente vendí el tlofs 2 por este bello juego y me lo voy a quedar por q lo aprecio mucho
A fitting and truly worthwhile game to actually end the PlayStation 4 generation. It's a FUN game and enjoyable throughout. Amazing setting and beautiful looking game the entire time.
I can not find any faults that incite Me to give this anything but a perfect score. The fighting is extremely satisfying, the techniques and advancements are achievements you long for. The scenery and subject matter of the game is exquisite and beautiful.

20 hours into the game and I have never enjoyed slashing combat so much since God of War. Critics don't know how good this is despite the obvious glitches that the game has. If these type of bugs can be removed, a new game plus and camera angle improvements in certain situations. Then we would be having a GoTY for sure.

瑕不掩瑜的優秀作品！沒想到在仁王、隻狼之後，Sucker Punch 融合眾多遊戲的優點，打造出屬於自己的傳奇！讓我回想起遊玩 RDR2 時一直忙著解支線、忙著拍照的優良遊戲體驗！ 這才是遊戲該帶給玩家的感受，這才是遊戲人應該要去做到的！ 真心推薦給大家，PS4 末代值得擁有的一款遊戲！ Just play and enjoy this amazing game!!

Its like the old Assassin's Creed formula and they perfected every aspect. Everything is smooth, the combat, stealth, horse riding, walking, running, exploring, graphics, music, acting etc. Anything you can think of is top class.


Мне понравилась игра, графика не очень, но вот стилистика балдежная и весьма приятная боевка


This game is Keanu Reeves (Breathtaking). I have till date not sent such a huge amount of time exploring the world rather than playing the Mission. The side quests feel less like side missions and More like the main mission. The guiding winds just make us feel like we're part of the game and are not just using some mini map to help us reach places. Totally adore this game
Apsolute masterpiece. Nothing else needs to be said about the game that has it all right. Combat is amazing,it never gets dull cutting your enemies and then cleaning your katana using your sleeve, or just flicking the sword at the side, splashing the remaining blood on the flowers in the field. Graphics also looks amazing, probably the best that will ever exist on PS4 pro. The biggest factor here is the story, which is apsolutely fantastic. You can literally see the strugle of the main character between how he was raised to live and fight and how he must adapt and change in order to survive the invasion of an enemy that is far superior in numbers and fights by totally different rules. Side quests are amazing and interesting, not boring like in some games, you dont have to do them but they give so much more context to side characters like Masako and Ishigawa for example. 10/10, if i could give it a million,i would. The only game that comes even close to God of War (2018).

Сегодня 21 июля, всё ещё жду свою копию игры по предзаказу. Спасибо М-видео за мучительное ожидание. Надеюсь они как-то возместят моральный ущерб. А игра превысила мои ожидания, пробовал у друга, который купил в цифре.


Amazing. I played 4 hrs at release, and 16 hrs the next day. I'm an old gamer, And I completely lose track of time in this game, it has me intrested and engaged. I noticed the real negative low score professional critics were full of bunk. Even if you really didn't like this game it's still at least a 75 or 80.
The game is authentic. No SJW trash in it! Honestly, it is like Witcher 3 in a sense or think Assassin's Creed Orgiins (before it went WOKE garbage with the Greek one). This is a really good game!!




Очень красивая игра, которая, хоть и не привносит в индустрию ничего нового (буквально, абсолютно ничего), умудряется затянуть очень надолго. Живописные виды часто заставляют тянуться к кнопке фоторежима, а боевка, при всей своей анти-оригинальности, также выглядит красиво, интересно и даже сложно. Sucker Punch сумели создать атмосферу, благодаря которой из игры не хочется выходить десятки часов, и благодаря которой ты делаешь то, что, казалось бы, бессмысленно. Объективно игра, может, не 10/10, но здесь я пишу свои впечатления от игры, и вот они то как раз на 10/10.

This game is so much better than The Last of Us Part 2, most importantly its storytelling is making sense. Good action and beautiful, I enjoyed so much playing this game. Will never buy any Naughty Dog game anymore, eps. Last of Us franchise, NO MORE!!!!

amazing game ill list some pros and cons down below thanks for reading pros -great cinematic camera throughout the whole game it's like you're in a cutscene but with actual action you control -amazing looks whether you are on ps4 or ps4 pro the game makes you feel like your running the best version possible -glitches and any bugs were patched one day one from my experience I didn't see any - a very long game that had a story with a great pace -fun side quest that didn't feel like I had to go out of my way not repetitive either except for the hostage missions which were annoying cons - the camera i know i listed the camera as a pro but the same reason its a pro is the same reason its a con because they went for a very pretty looking camera that was more cinematic it made for a very poor game camera constantly had enemies swarm me in getting in the way and with the lack of lock on this made a problem same with going in and out of tents -the voice acting was kinda bland for some people in English it felt like they were in a studio instead of actually there in Tsushima -lack of replayability its an amazing game but its not something you do more than once so for some people this isn't worth the 60 dollars (gaming is an expensive hobby especially single player) -while the game is fun and combat is great the game doesn't really make me feel like a ghost of Tsushima stealth should of been the best way for many missions but it didnt seem as powerful or as useful as just putting on your strongest armor and challenging them to a standoff - i went in expecting to be a reaper of death ninja and became a god of war that could hide in a bush

Best game I have ever played. Monstrous statement, having been a gamer for 30 years, but this game has never made me feel like any other game across so many areas; combat, world, story... everything. I've never had so many chills/adrenalin in any entertainment medium. Jaw dropping on so many levels, words really cannot describe how this thing hits you. I'm really harsh with game/movie reviews (just look at my other reviews), so when I give this a 10, I don't give it lightly. There are one or two tiny little things I wish were a little better, lip syncing/matching, as an example, but as an overall experience, this game is sublime, amazing, and (in my experience) second to none.
Its amazing game. My biggest take is the absence of HUD, so you get to immerse yourself in the environment as the wind is used to guide you to your next location
Everything about this game screams awesome. The atmosphere, combat, story and quest design are all just amazing. This is how you end a generation, this is how you make a game and do it very well. I'm not going to take a cheap shot at other games that haven't accomplished this yet garnered higher "critic" scores. If you ask me, the only score that really matters are the players scores (people who have actually played the game). Why are you still reading? You should be playing Ghost.
I thought this was going to be another Sekiro, but it truly wasn't. Ghost of Tsushima sets itself apart from modern games and brings back some of it's beauty and gameplay from previous Way-of-The-Samurai style games, with the style and technical benefits of 2020's best. It's an absolutely beautiful game, each frame being worth hanging on my wall. Good job!
The long wait is finally over and it does disappoint! It's so much better than I imagined and for me, this is the best PS4 exclusive in the market! Thank you Sucker Punch for such an amazing game. 10/10 from me.
Це сама красива гра в яку я тільки грав, геймплей і сюжет тримає до самого кінця, кожен день просинаюсь тільки для того, щоб знову досліджувати цей неймовірно красивий світ, Sucker Punch молодці, гра 10/10!!



This game is incredible. The visuals, the music, the scenery are just stunning. The combat system is intense and never gets boring. Perfect combination of stealth and/or open battle or stand off. The storytelling is also just great, the way the quests are visualized and narrated just overwhelmed me. This is how you tell your story. The love and compassion SuckerPunch put into this game, is astonishing. Basically this game is an open world Samurai movie with you as the Hero. I strongly recommend this game for gamers. Pros: - Great setting in feudal Japan - Incredible visuals - Great music - Fluid and challenging combat - Simplistic HUD - Great and rewarding exploration - Great open world - Great storytelling - One of the best quest staging I ever saw - Intense emotional attachment to Jin Cons: - Some minor bugs/glitches I have to admit, I am a fanboy. I got the Platinum Trophy. But I simply can't think of anything tedious or bad in this game. Not one time in my 50 hour journey I had this well known open world feeling of being overwhelmed by the size and question marks on the map. Play the game! Cheers

Amazing title, since Tenchu there was no game with so realistic samurai fights and japanesse story. I love combat, which is not like dark souls but rather witcher 3 alike. Great story, mechanics, RPG elements and overall speed of loading of the game etc. Its probably game of the year 2020.
i haven't completed the game yet i'm on chapter two but so far i'm really enjoying the game huge map good customisation and just fun to play just looking forward to unlocking the ghost armour then i'm going for platinum

The whole game was amazing I 100%ed it in 4 days and now replaying it again this game shoot up to my all time favorite game sucker punch is now officially my favorite game production company. I haven’t played a game in a long time that captivated me and pulled me in to its world like this game, after finishing the game I went out I got depressed I was so used to the amazing landscape in the game. I really wanted to go back to that era and live there. This game has rocketed to my top favorite games right next to red dead redemption, god of war, uncharted and GTA I hope we get much more games like this from sucker punch and Sony in the future. Huge thumps up, I never rate or review a game but this game deserves to be played and it’s is a blast I haven’t been able to stop I have been playing it since the release and I still find it interesting and entertaining after 6 days of nonstop 8 hour a day playing. It is a must have for any gamer who appreciate good story telling and amazing game play dynamics and I will definitely buy it and play it on PS5 when it’s out.


This is an amazing game that is fun to play as a game should be. No agendas or narratives being pushed, just a good fun game, with great fighting and story telling. I have had so much fun exploring this world and do not feel rushed or pushed to end the game. I am well studied in Japanese culture and history, and I think this game does it justice. In all fairness, there are a couple of bugs, which makes this game a 9/10, but since it's clear that some butt-hurt Critics have bad review bombed this game to damage it, I decided to add the extra point. This is the type of game that I will be replaying over and over again.
I believe this game is on par with Witcher3 and RDR2 for me. The great combat, minimal HUD (wind direction thing idea is brilliant), graphics, story and immersive world make it on par with the best games ever and a masterpiece.

This game is not perfect but anyway is a masterpiece, is beautiful and the combat is so fun to play, do not listen anybody tell you something different.


Tremendo juego, en todo aspecto está al filo de la perfección, indudablemente con lo que va del año se merece goty y en especial me alegra jugar un juego entretenido y con una buena historia así como gráficamente hermoso para sacar ese mal sabor de boca que dejo tlou2

Лучшая игра этого поколения, впервые мне хочется исследовать полностью мир. Проект не надоедает на протяжении многих часов беспрерывной игры. Браво Sucker Punch, следующая игра от вас для меня самая ожидаемая теперь. Сам прошел лишь первый акт, на закрытие всех заданий и мест ушло порядка 15-16 часов.



This game is just amazing. The aesthetics and the atmosphere of a feudal Japan are right on the spot, the combat is super fun and can be complex at times and the story is the best in the gaming industry this year so far. I honestly cannot understand how people can give a game like this a low score, just buy it, you won't regret it!

great gost of tsushima great gost of tsushima great gost of tsushima great gost of tsushima

For the first time we have a AAA class production game that accurately recreates the world of samurai. If you love Onimusha, Nioh because of the samurai background, you are gonna be in love with this game. The true samurai experience that we have been waited for. Everything else meet the standard of what you would expect from a AAA open-world game - if it's not better. Combat is the most realistic yet fun Samurai experience that I have ever seen.

I have to say that after finishing it, I was impressed. The history and the atmosphere together with an outstanding graphic section are undoubtedly the best of this title. It really makes you feel like a samurai who has to change his code and fighting style to survive the first Mongol invasion. With regard to gameplay and the open world, the truth is that it brings almost nothing that we have not seen in other games such as the AC saga: collectibles, territories and prisoners to release, places to visit to improve the status of our character, stealth , executions, everything very similar but with a Japanese atmosphere. Some characteristics such as the different combat postures which we must alternate depending on the enemy we face gives freshness to the gameplay. Still, overall the game is amazing, certainly one of the contenders for this year's goty. Highly recommended.
The story mode is amazing the boss battles and combat the combat starts out barebones at first but gets better and better over time the mythic side quests are fun the boss battles are enjoyable and don't feel too hard or too easy in my opinion I'm 40 hours in and can't stop playing
I really liked the game, beautiful graphics, wonderful gameplay, perfect ambience. At each skill point you really feel your character stronger. The biggest defect, I believe is the camera. Sometimes it gives a bug, but nothing that spoils the gameplay. But I really missed a target lock option. Other than that, the game is almost perfect

One of the best game i ever play the music the story the combat was amazing and the world was very beautiful i have to stop to take pictures every 5 min and the ending whare you have to fight your uncle was one of the best moments in the game.
This is the best game I’ve played this year. I spent 20 hours in the first part of the game because I kept exploring the open world. Buy it, it will be worth it.
Хорошая игра. Недавно приобрёл специальное издание, доволен стилбуком (очень в тему игры). Что можно сказать об игре. Призрак Цусимы очаровала своей атмосферой и японской культурой, лично я любитель данного сеттинга. Всем советую поиграть в данную игру.
One of the best open world games I have ever played. I have played and completed (usually 80-90% or more of map) Red Dead 2, AC Odyssey & Origins, Farcry 3 4 5, Fallout 3 & 4, Zelda BotW, Spiderman, Okami, and Infamous 1 & 2, to name a few. I am a big fan of the open world genre but after AC Odyssey I was super burnt out and getting really tired of the formula especially the busy HUDs, habit of copy pasting assets to enlarge worlds, and unrefined clunkiness of player controls. Red Dead 2 has excellent story and visuals but the controls and movement never stopped feeling clunky to me up to the very end and AC Odyssey had so many reused assets just to pad out that massive map that there are few moments that really feel memorable plus the hold R2 and parkour to avoid the clunky object placement really got to me. So, I saw positive early reviews of this and since there is a bit of a release drought I decided to take a gamble and my god am I happy I did. This is really the type of improvement you hope for with every new iteration of the open world genre. First, the HUD is so clean that it literally feels good to look at. With the addition of it's guiding wind and helper birds mechanic plus actual environmental cues for certain sites visible from a long way away, I have rarely paused the game to check my map in hours of gameplay. It feels so good to play an open world game where I am not staring at a compass marker at the top of my screen or a minimap or opening my main map every 100 meters. I just ride through the landscape and easily find my marked objective while being gently led to unexpected surprises along the way. It's a real joy. Which brings me to the way this game looks. I haven't enjoyed art design in game so much since God of War. People may argue that RDR2 looks better blah blah blah. This game has such excellent use of lighting, color and movement plus a cohesive theme that I am constantly taken aback by some of the vistas and I have never been one of those people who stops and pans the camera in games or who ever uses photo mode. Seriously, it looks amazing and I have yet to encounter an environment that is copy paste. They crafted what seems to be dozens of completely unique environments and man, you just have to experience this game especially with the amazing weather. I dueled a guy in a ring of rusted samurai swords during a lightning storm and it is one of my most memorable gaming experiences of the past couple years. So gameplay. I see this getting bashed in some reviews and I am not sure why. Controls feel tight and everything feels so responsive in this game. Comparing again to AC Odyssey and RDR2, I summon my horse in this game and it is right there and I hit one button and am on it and riding all in less than five or six seconds. In ACO, your horse spawns several hundred meters behind you and objective points are clustered so freaking close that I pretty much sprinted across all of ancient greece. RDR2 was 'realistic' but so slow so bulky which I don't want in my video games. Combat is tight as well, good diversity in enemy types, nice amount of choice in player style, fun and meaningful upgrades, the lack of a lock-on was a great choice and I have yet to feel bored by combat. I genuinely still just love slicing Mongols up because it has great hit registration, I'm not teleporting into range or performing unbelievable acrobatics. If I don't space right I whiff and get punished but if I parry or dodge the game registers the timing and I never feel frustrated by it. Duels are fantastic because they remove your toolkit and its swords only in a fantastic setting with some genuinely challenging combat. Controls are easy to remember as well which is a big thing for me. Story you will either like or feel ambivalent towards I think. If you like old samurai movies, it will be fun but if you are expecting any humor or subversion of expectations then it won't live up to that. It does what it sets out to do very solidly and was never grating or annoying to me. I was along for the ride but not overly invested in it if that makes sense. Character customization is varied and looks great and pacing of upgrades/leveling is controlled very nicely. Really, I can recommend this game without hesitation. You're going to have a good time if you have ever enjoyed an open world game and if you don't like the genre this probably won't win you over but it still might be worth it if you play single player games like God of War or Last of Us since the map is not flooded with to-dos and you can easily just stick to the story and soak up the artwork.
Look the game is amazing everything feels great (besides some of the climbing) and Thai game is the whole reason I have an account on this website now, to show the game some love 10/10 WOULD RECOMMEND!!!
Great game, excellent graphics, gameplay, characters, the plot is simple but interesting, after tlou 2 any game will seem like a masterpiece, but GHOST OF TSUSHIMA is just a good game worth buying, at least for a discount
Amazing game.Sucker Punch started the ps4 era and ended it with a swan song with ghost of tsushima. A captivating and heartfelt story.The gameplay is filled with so many abilities and the skill tree is just fascinating with three modes.The emotional beats connecting jin to his allies and his uncle. The mongols invasion of the island offers a breath of fresh air to the open world genre.The mythical quest are so much fun and helps to deepen the lore of the game.Chasing foxes to their dens.The graphics are just plain amazing especially playing on the old generation.The particles are just amazing from dense flower fields to the burning towns you can see the amazing parties details.The amount of flower and leave details is simply stunning. Cannot recommend enough. This really makes you feel in feudal Japan.The team at Sucker Punch went above and beyond for the photo mode with plenty of features and options such as depth of field or grain not to men ion the awesome black and white kirusawa mode.A must buy


Incredible game. Fluid, fast-paced, fun combat. A stunning open world with new missions and tales to find. Varied mission types and side activities. A sense of style and confidence that few games display anymore. This game is an absolute must-have for and PS4 owner.
The game to me is an absolute masterpiece! The controls are tight. The camera is responsive (depending on what you have it set to), and the combat...the combat is buttery smooth. Is it tough? It can be; depending upon what you have it set to. However is it as tough as say... Sekiro or Nioh 2? Not by a long shot. Just because the game is, "difficult" doesn't necessarily mean that the game is terrible. It just means that you need to step back and ask where you went wrong and go from there. The world is absolutely breath taking! The game world is so lived in. I hope that this review helpful and all of you take care
Tg5is is the samuria game i have always wanted to play. Amazing Game extremely well made and beautifully done. I have passed it and am all ready on my second play through.
What a great game to play! There surely are few... problems. But those problems are common thing nowadays, can't remember a single AAA game since 2017 without them. Considering this fact, we may forgive those mistakes and in the end it's still a great, fun and fascinating experience! I am sure you will enjoy the storyline and gameplay.



Un pur chef d'oeuvre, un dépaysement total. C'est de l'assassin Creed en mieux, la crème de la crème. Graphiquement rien a dire, c'est LE jeu qui clôture cette génération. Scénaristiquement pas folichon, mais l'effet y est. La fin est très cool! Gameplay bien dynamique. Ost très bien travaillé. Une pure merveille malgré tout ces défauts.
I am new to Metacritic so I assure you I’m not a bot. I joined because I was mad and sickened by The Last of Us 2 and wanted to voice my opinion. Now I see the very same ppl who praised TLOU2 are trying to shoot Ghost of Tsushima down and I’m here again to say that this game has given me a new hope on gaming. The land scape is ever changing with a fresh new way in dispersing vibrant colors in a very traditional way. Absolutely by far one of the best I have played in a long time. This isn’t your typical open world game.....( which I am burnt out on ) this is something rare and different that will pull you in and makes it very difficult to pull yourself out. Sucker Punch, I have been a gamer for 30 years so I would like to think I have the credibility in saying that you nailed it. Thank you for what you have done here. After the BS Naughty Dog pulled this was a true gift. I can’t wait to see what else is in store.
best game I have played in a long time. It has everything I want in a game. great story,amazing game play, an awesome ability tree and you can upgrade your weapons and armors
Visuals are stellar. All the missions kinda remind me of "small, but significant stories" of the Witcher 3. You have several plotlines, spanning themes like house feuds, invasion, honor vs practicality, student vs master, and they are told in their own subplots. The whole story and its structure are also perfect for open-world game design. You never feel like stuff is just there so that you have something to do. Pretty much all of it is grounded in the world, its state, your status before the invasion, and so on... Combat mechanics and the whole gameplay are crafted perfectly. You start as a powerful warrior, but it isn't enough. You then learn how to deal with the Mongol army and their fighting styles and you learn the dishonorable ways of combat (aka progress is reasonably grounded in the lore). The game world uses inworld guidance (wind, birds, foxes) that help with the experience. Ability to call a horse while running, or pick up the things from the horseback are just a few quality of life improvements that add to the whole package. There is hardly anything that breaks the experience. Witcher has shown the world how a story and quests are supposed to be done in the open-world games. Horizon: Zero Dawn has shown how a combat can work and RDR2 has shown how great it can look and feel from the "real world that is lived in and believable" perspective. I truly feel like this game brings these titles into one extremely consistent experience.

This is one of the best open-world games ever. Absolutely gorgeous, and if you have surround sound, it's even more amazing. So many unique twists to an open world game that really makes it immersive. The game was inspired by Samurai films, and it shows in a big way. Sucker Punch pulled off a masterpiece for fans of the genre. It doesn't get any better than this.


Wow this game is stunning. This is like if you took the exploration and stunning art direction of something like breath of the wild and mixed it with the best parts of assassins creed(not the new ones). This game is my favorite game this generation and if anyone is on the fence about it just buy it and you’ll thank me later
I was honestly on the fence about this game. On one hand I love the stoic nature and history of the samurai but on the other I am completely burned out on open world games. (I am a completionist) I went into this game with a bad attitude. Within the first couple of hours the game won me over. There is a certain magic quality here that this game and it’s creators have weaved together. A quality that transcends stunning graphics & gameplay loops. It’s a feeling like no other. This is definitely one of those titles you need to be in the drivers seat to understand. I too checked out streamers and YouTube reviews but they could not convey it’s true essence. If you’re on the fence I would urge you to pull the trigger and buy this game ...you will be amazed!!
Such a beautiful experience. After just coming off of a heavy experience like The Last Of Us Part 2 this just hit the spot. With gameplay that is exquisite and fun building off a more arcade like combat of Sekiro and Souls games. I would argue that this is the best "Assassins Creed" game ever created.With beautiful landscapes, an intriguing soundtrack, and tons of way to customize Jin Sakai this game leaves you with wanting more. Take the dive into sacrificing all of your honor and tradition in order to become the Ghost of Tsushima to save your people and become the hero Tsushima needs. Absolutely fantastic !

Th ending was heartbreaking. This is one of the best games i have ever played. Sucker punch has delivered as always
such a beautiful game with a beautiful story and with beautiful characters. I loved them all, I hope that there will be the second game. It's successful.
The Ghost of Tsushima is one of the greatest games to come out for the PS4, the gameplay is fantastic with amazing graphics that compete with its own E3 demo back in 2018, the combat is some of the best I have ever seen in how fluid the motions are when fighting against each and every opponent you may come across and with how every “Battle” feels like there is something At stake. The lighting is pure cinematic greatness without overdoing it with crazy bloom effects. Lastly another good idea the developers had was to use a minimal hud to really let you take in the architecture of the ancient Japanese world and all the beautiful trees and flowers and just let you take in the environment to let you feels like you are in a real time period it is not a perfect game as no game is perfect or anything in media is perfect it still is a very easy 9/10 for me.
The most visually beautiful game out there today. The gameplay is excellent, in particular the swordplay itself. There were moments and story beats where I felt like a total badass. There were moments where I just wanted to relax in a hot spring and then write a haiku to reflect. The highs far outweigh any lows here, to me it’s no question, THIS is the pinnacle of PlayStation 4 (along with TLOU Part II). Also - the BEST looking game in HDR. I often have to spend good chunks of time calibrating each game’s HDR levels to go with my older Walmart Samsung - Tsushima is by far the best looking game for HDR and I didn’t have to move any sliders. Everything looks so natural (no too-black blacks and no washed-out, everything-is-in-a-fog look). Shadows, lighting effects - SPOT. ON. Particle effects - the best this generation. I honestly don’t know how Sucker Punch pulled this off, but if I was a game dev, I would be knocking on their door asking how the hell they made this.
When I first I heard about the game I had mixed feelings. I really liked what I saw in the trailers but the other sucker punch games weren’t my type of games. But now after I beat the game I have to say that it’s nearly a perfect game for me. The visuals are absolutely stunning, the gameplay is nothing completely new but perfectly made and the story is really good for an open world game. But the biggest points for me is the game as a whole itself. It feels like there is a perfect amount of everything. Today the average open world game makes you to collect find all the points on the map and often fails to benefit you for it. I think for me it’s the first game in a long time where I wasn’t bored in any moment. There’s little thinks that could be done better but these are all things where I think there wasn’t enough budget for it. So in the end I have to say that to this point it’s the best game of the year and the best game on PS4. Cyberpunk has a hard job.

The game is just fire. Yes, there is no LGBT propaganda in it, and **** with it, take the game The Last of Us: Part 2, where the main character is a lesbian. Foo it be that. I am against LGBT. And let's rate games not for LGBT, but for the fact that, well, really what the game is good or bad. If it comes to that, then half of the popular games are a hat, because they are not LGBT. And for those who rate games on the basis of LGBT, I want to say the following, drown yourself in the toilet.
This has fast become one of my favourite open world games and what a way to end a generation and show off what the PS4 could actually achieve. The environment is spectacular, wait till sunset or sunrise. The progression is fantastic, I am close to the end of Act 2 and you have to earn each battle and/or duel. I would love to have seen a bit more customisation with the weaponary and the ability to unlock different katanas. All in all this game will surprise and keep you going for many an hour.

this game is so powerful, it have a various combat such as samurai mode, technique mode and Ghost mode. and graphic so realistic like a film. and i really love it. IT MASTERPIECE
Ghost of Tsushima is the result of great graphics with amazing art design, good story telling and fantastic gameplay. Do not miss out on this one. Must play!

Great game! Beautiful open world, fun side content, amazing combat, memorable story, this game had everything I wanted in a samurai game and then some! Definitely a must buy!


Amazing game and definitely deserves the scores, this game had extremely fun combat a good story and actually made me care for the characters, this game has a bunch of histor and culture in the game and the attention to detail in it is mind blowing, this game took me for a ride and is a good comeback for Sony from the failure and disappointment of the last of us 2
30 hours in the game and i am still on act 2 amazing game with so much to do and just mesmerized at everything .. One of the best gameplay in a game and having no lock on is a plus for me because i can be like a ninja striking multiple targets when surrounded .. Also using different tools and stances is pretty cool to make combat more epic .. Story wise it's weak for other npc's but for Jin and my horse Kage they felt real with better story arc and character development .. To cut this review short just buy the game this is worthy of game of the year for me with FF7 Remake it has amazing visuals and art direction, tons of things to do and the combat is engaging and the story is heart wrenching .. Thank you sucker punch for ending the PS4 era with a big bang .. Hoping for another history game from your studio ..
В целом игра неплохая, но, сюжет лично у меня никакие эмоции не вызывал. Поленились сделать больше моделек персонажей, уж их очень мало и выглядет это так себе :/ Анимации лиц тоже не понравились ( Так сказать, рот открывается и на этом спасибо ) Камера в игре это тоже что-то, давно не видел в играх чтобы она залетала за текстуры, что во время битвы очень бесит! Боевая система великолепна, мир игры очень красивый. Фоторежим в игре прекрасный, кучу различных функций что очень радует!
Wow some stupid people review bombing this game with zero i think they are fans of Last of Us 2 or an xbox fanboy or just want to bring this game down. This is such an amazing game worthy of GOTY until Cyberpunk comes out. It has one of the best visuals in any game and generation i've played and it has one of the best combat mechanics too. Tons of things to do in a open world setting which if you want this kind of genre you will not get bored at it. Story also made me tear up i don't want to spoil but i wan't to bow and pay respects. Sucker Punch really did a fantastic job and to end the intro of the game is the best for me so far having a blast and i am 45 hours in!!




Просто Уау! На текущий момент эта игра является лучшей! Приятный сеттинг и отличная история. Сразу видно делали для людей,а не как тлоу2

This game is great. One of the best open-world games of this generation. The Tsushima Island is so alive, wonderful and full of descoveries. The story is good and the side missions is so interesting and so cool. I really recommend this game.
Игра отличная, наконец то свежий глоток нормальной игры, это вам не одиссея обосанная , это на много лучше) Спасибо разработчикам за отличную проделанную работу
The game is fantastic in terms of both graphics and the story. Love this game so much!!! For a person like me who is devoted to history, this is a game you cannot miss. For those negative reviews, the accounts were created recently which just gave TLOU 10 points. You know who are they and who hire them:) #neil druckmann #paid comments

Must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have must have


Игра про древнюю Японию и самураев. Не всем зайдет, но игра качественная и интересная



The game details are awesome the flowers beautiful and the history for what i done until now is a good one his battle system is perfect and easy to get the hang of it and the sound is awesome when there's rain you hear the sound of the water hitting the tables like the real ones
Game of the Year. Visual effects, story and gameplay -- 100/10. It's like Witcher in Japan :) There is some visual bugs, but not critical, and I suppose all of them will be fixed shortly. Highly recommend!
Gran mundo abierto, espectacular entorno y misiones secundarias muy interesantes. No tiene micropagos ni cosas de esas, lo cual es bastante raro hoy en día


Best samurai wielding katana game, combat mechanic works so well, the details of realism are top notch. They not lying about game that inspired this game (zelda Breath of The Wild and Red Dead Redemption), blend so well, and it was magical

I just wanted to say that is a very fun game to play with a huge open world experience. Tons of side quests and Backstories, you will find yourself being side tracked. I also want to express gratitude to SuckerPunch for not trying to push a modern-day political agenda at the expense of the entire gameplay experience, Story, and Characters like another Sony developer recently did. Thank you SuckerPunch, you deserve a 10/10
Ghost of Tsushima es un juego precioso, los paisajes te invitan a explorar y a perderte en el vasto mundo de tsushima. El combate es magistral, la historia es profunda y los personajes tienen un gran desarrollo. La banda sonora, el sonido de ambiente, los sonidos en la batalla y la trayectoria el doblaje en japonés son excelentes. Súper recomendable este juego, para mi un 10/10 sin dudarlo.


Don't really review games, this is probably my first review ever on any platform but I felt compelled to do it after having played the game for dozens of hours now and seeing reports of people review bombing it in order to tank the user scores. If you don't want to read the whole thing I can say that in summary I think Ghost of Tsushima is a beautifully crafted masterpiece and a solemn Western bow to all classic Japanese samurai movies. If you've ever dreamed of walking in the shoes of one of those legendary samurai swordsmen then this game will provide the closest experience available on the market at the moment. I don't want to ignore other great games like Sekiro but that game for instance is so difficult that most of the time you feel like you are barely scraping through the levels. GoT instead can make you feel like a samurai God, stylishly slaying your way through the mongol hordes in visceral bloody combat that feels both slick and impactful, especially when you build up your arsenal with new abilities and fight stances. While I do admit the combat is more 'casual' than the one in Sekiro, I also have to say that to me it's one of the most satisfying melee fighting systems in the open-world genre and has done enough to differentiate itself from the others titles it is compared to (Assasins Creed/Batman Arkham series etc.). There is no reason to discuss the graphics as the game speaks for itself - it's just breathtaking for majority of the time and a great way to end the PS4 era with a bang! The HUD is very minimalist and allows for complete immersion during most of the gameplay. There is no level-gating in the game, you can just plow through the main quest if you'd like to but chances are you won't because the world is so compelling to explore! Both side and main quests are heavily inspired by The Witcher 3 which is always a great thing in my book. Though it doesn't reach quite the same level of character building and impact overall the story and quests are very good and also heavily inspired by old samurai movies, the game actually inspired me to go back and watch some of the flicks made by Akira Kurosawa and other great Japanese film makers. The game has zero micro-transactions and all of the 'grind' is optional however I've opted to go for getting 100% of the achievements which is going to be my first on the PS4! So, for the negatives my 2 biggest gripes are: - The camera can be very clumsy at times and you can find yourself without a clear view of your opponent having to guess what they are doing. I do enjoy the fact there is no lock-on system giving a more freestyle feel to the combat but at the same time the camera needs to be On Point for that to work correctly. This is not happening for the majority of the playtime but when it does it is noticeable! - There are a variety of small to bigger bugs I've encountered during my time playing, which leaves me with the impression that the game could have used a few more months in the oven before it was released. In the end of it all, I feel like the positive aspects of the game so heavily outweigh the negatives that any bad impressions I've had are almost made irrelevant. I want to end this review with a bow to Sucker Punch Productions for all the love they put in the project and deeply hope they would do a sequel for the PS5!


Its not only a good game but beautiful. The mechanics are smooth. Have encountered just 1 bug , wich is rare for a open world game.especialy on launch. And the fast loading of a kill or fast travel realy improves the quality . And the wind mechanics is awsome.


I'm really enjoying this game as I missed the old Way Of The Samurai games, even though this is not the same it's a very good replacement for that game. I'm hoping this leads to a way of the samurai revival. This game has wonderful graphics and I really enjoy the gameplay.
Honestly perfect game for me. The combat is fluid and very fun to master switching the stances and combining combos. Stealth is great too but I do prefer the samurai style but there are parts were you have to use the stealth for a quest but it has good gameplay. The story so far has been great but for spoilers I eint get into that. Definitely recommend
Это огромный и классный последний эксклюзив! Спасибо Sucker Punch, им все таки удалось сделать этот сетинг и японскую культуру! Любителям японского сетинга точно зайдёт!
I sold my last of us 2 copy put a little bit more money and got this masterpiece. Good Story , Awesome game play. Gorgeous levels. Can't say enough good thing about it. traded that piece of crap last of us 2 for maybe one of the best games I played in a while




Best game ever... loooooovee the gameplay, love the story.. love every detail
Without a doubt my game of the year so far loving the story and open world setting so far and playing on a pro with 1800p and hdr the game is really beautiful often just stand there for 5 minutes just looking at the background much more better looking than the last of us 2
This was the best game I have played of 2020 so far, the sound is amazing, the battle system is intuitive, the graphics are insanely good. The story flows and works together the emotional struggle is real. There is so much to explore and see you get the feeling like you are in Nipon. There are some glitches with camera angles and the battle system sometimes but its minor. The camera system to take screen shots omfg they put a hell of a lot of work and the shots are crazy.
I played a lot of open world games, but I should say that Ghost are great visual decision. This is not an Assassin's I am sure about that, Ghost go by their own way. This is the game where I don't want to rush, just walk through the bamboo forest, among beautiful fields and enjoying all parts of game. Very deep fight system, what I can say more about that If even professional fighter on catana said that it looks good and pretty realistic. I feel that Sucker Punch put their soul into this game, this is amazing. Thank you!


Очень интересная и важная история. Мне игра очень понравилась. Боевка шикарная. Графика хорошая. Озвучку поставил японскую а субтитры русские. В общем игру советую к обязательной покупке и обязательном прохождению. Графика:8/10 Сюжет:10/10 Озвучка:10/10 Общие ощущения 10/10
Doesn't bring anything knew to table but boy does it deliver on gameplay, story and graphics. The Game Cleary had taken inspiration from other games like Far cry and assassins creed but is still an enjoyable and addictive experience. The history and culture just draws you in. A revenge story done right. The Game is beautiful and the soundtrack awe inspiring
I enjoyed every second spent in this amazing game. Sure, it has some issues with scenes and unskippable npc dialogues but everything else is incredibly good.
This shame is one that I waited for a LONG time. Hoping it would be an amazing game was a low expectation compared to what we got. This is an astonishing, beautiful and just nearly perfect samurai game! I rarely purchase games on day 1 of release but after watching the badass gameplay videos of it, I just had to make this purchase. The most fun I've had in a video game since Assassin's Creed Unity when the ps4 was first released. I give this game an 11 out of 10♡ no politics, just incredible fun
Apesar da história ser um tanto clichê, o potencial do game acaba sendo: gameplay super atraente desenvolvimento do personagem bastante interessante arte do cenário impecavel
To all the people review bombing this saying "ThEy CoPiEd AsSaSsInS CrEeD" have no concept of gaming history & who Sucker Punch is. Back when PS2 was the console to have, a game called Sly Cooper was release.. this STEALTH based game was release in 2002... AC was release in 2007... The stealth in Ghost of Tsushima has far more resemblance to sly cooper than AC, but most people leaving reviews with that comparison are new gen gamers who are just now getting involved in gaming after playing fornite thinking it makes them a real gamer. This game is 100% a GOTY contender & Sucker Punch solidifies their position among some of the GREATEST DEVELOPERS AROUND. They have grown with their fans from a kids game Sly Cooper on ps2, to teen/young adults game Infamous on ps3, and now an adults game Ghost of Tsushima on ps4. They've made rock solid games time & time again, yet people applaud ubisoft that turned AC into a wanabe Witcher 3 with dlc that lets you fast track your game... yet people applauded ubi & are condeming Sucker Punch... crazy, this game has no fast pass microtransactions, no buying weapons/armor/mounts/resources/xpboosts off a cash store. All that aside, well done Sucker Punch. Don't let the Political Correct community & the uninformed fanboies of AC get you down. You are one of the best developers around & this game PROVES it. Thanks for making a complete single player game in an era of incomplete DLC cash grabs. 10/10 PS. only thing i do wish is that you add a newgame+ mode & maybe a harder difficulty. I know you focused on releasing a finished product, & you succeeded, now hit me with that NG+ & a realism mode.
The best game ever about Japanese culture. Stunning graphics, this could be Witcher 3 Japan version. The graphics in this game like art, not the video game anymore. If you are bored playing Assassin's Creed, you need to play this game. Good job Sucker Punch. I have to create Metacritic to review this game. OMG, this game so awesome. The bad thing about this game is the camera and no locked target but the graphics design so amazing.
Wow this is an awesome game. The world is gorgeous and the story and mechanics are so good. It's a bit like a GTA or Assassin's Creed but in Japan several hundred years ago with Samurai. They did so many things right in making this game and even though some people will complain about the assassination mechanics I think its an absolute blast. I'm even playing on the regular PS4 and I'm blown away by how good it looks.



This is an awesome game! It does enough to differentiate itself from Nioh and Sekiro. The narrative is straight out of a 60s samurai film and the world is one of the most beautiful the ps4 has given us. The open world navigation with the wind direction is a great idea. This is what assassin's creed wishes it was.
One of the best games I've played this generation absolutely, gameplay is fluid ,plenty of cool upgrades and story easy to follow. It's on par with horizon zero dawn and Bloodborne for me . Excellent.
一般的小任務也有非常多的對話與鋪成，細膩的刻畫每個人物的個性， 讓每個角色人設都非常的立體也非常飽滿， 讓本作不單只有畫面漂亮， 但其實深深蘊藏著日本的文化與精神。 出色美術風格 流麗動作玩法 把日本傳統文化傳遞的淋漓盡致

Amazing game! Better than "Magic creed": Valhalla with SJW. Very good story with good graphics and game play. And I hope Ghost of Tsushima is Game of the Year!
Excelente game, jogabilidade, combates, gráficos lindos, com certeza deveria levar o prêmio do ano, SP parabéns!!!!

its a perfect samurái game and graphic is so beautiful,the combat is so cool

Absolutely superb game! Best I've played in a long time! This is what Assassins Creed should inspire to be! Ubisoft failed to deliver us Japan so Sucker Punch came and knocked it out the park. Awesome stuff!
This is genuinely the best single player game I’ve ever played. It’s like the older assassins creed games but with upgraded fighting and samurais. Even the side quest and missions are very entertaining.
Muy buen contenido, excelente historia, ambientacion perfecta un juego de mundo abierto que envicia incluso a quienes no acostumbran a jugar estos juegos. Jugabilidad buenisima, lo mejor es la mecanica de combate una experiencia nueva que vale la pena experimentar paisajes espe taculares
I have been loving this game great music amazing color, fun combat complex but not too painful been playing on hard mode overall i can feel all the love from Sucker Punch a must buy
Okay, this game will not appeal to people that do not like arcade violence. The violence while graphic wasn't overly real so I could handle it. That being said the story and visuals are amazing. I really felt emotionally committed. Some fights were, but your character gets more abilities to help. You can usually overcome such challenges via a different approach, eg: stealth, rather than head-on, Can't speak for realism, but on a 4K TV the visuals are amazing (perhaps some of the detail and animations are not the best), but to date this game provides the best overall visual experience. I don't want to give spoilers, but ignore the critic reviews and absolutely recommend this as a Must Play for all play station owners. Will play again if it is remastered for PS5.

I never how much I would actually enjoy this game until I actually played it. The gameplay and combat system is great and feels grounded. The visuals are simply amazing for an open world game. In addition, the loading screen times are incredibly short and not what I would have expected from such a visually pleasing game. The story was certainly good and I love how when you perform certain Ghost actions like assassination for the first time, Jin gets a flashback to the past about how Lord Shimura trained him with honor. Furthermore, the ending teared me up as I could feel the emotional conflict as the honorable Lord Shimura was ordered by the shogun to hunt down his nephew, or as he saw it, his own son. The decision at the end really creates a wonderful choice for players to either give Jin's surrogate father a honorable death or to spare him and let him live. The only things that I can criticize on are the grappling hook mechanic sometimes not giving the indicator despite it seeming like it should have and the long transitions from the end of missions to when you can regain control of your character. These minor inconveniences are just picky observations. The game's reward system for doing small activities is well-designed as you will never feel like you're on a bland, boring grind for only rewards that is easily obtainable elsewhere. Resting in hot springs rewards a health increase, bamboo strikes reward resolve increases, and many more. As a result, exploration doesn't feel like a hassle. Anyone who rates this game terribly clearly has not played through the whole game, had not learned what side activities they can do, and/or had a bias against a game that does not have any political agenda.
This game is a piece of art. Amazing story, amazing combat system. Exploring the map is really rewarding you always find useful things. Graphics are the best I have seen on ps4 pro so far. Seriously sucker punch thanks a lot for this amazing game!! Love you guys.
One of my favorite open world games of all time. Has the best combat system in a open world rpg even better than God of War. The game is very beautiful but the HDR can seem overdone. With many bloom instances blinding you because they are overly bright. Pretty basic mission design is the main thing that holds it back. The island has been captured and nearly all missions are fight to save somebody or fight to recover somebody/something. It wouldn't be that big of a deal if the characters you interacted with were better. They really needed some better writing and some more bonding moments. Maybe just an improvement to the character interactions with less standing and talking scenes. It wont be a big distraction just clearly something that needs improving. The game world is expertly crafted and exploring it is a joy. Some big time set piece battles are very well done and you should flip your PS4 pro over to performance mode before going into those fights. A decent amount of cosmetic collectibles and suits of armor that are all designed with abilities for different playstyles. Took me 40 hours or so to finish everything and get the platinum trophy... I wasted lots of time fighting trash enemies that pop up around the map so it can be done shorter. Haven't enjoyed a open world game this much since the Witcher 3 even if it does fall short in that comparison.
Um dos jogos mais lindos que joguei , além da imersão no mundo dos samurais que te faz pensar e agir como um , o mapa é muito bem desenvolvido e vivo, o combate é muito contagiante e te faz querer batalhar a todo momento.
What an incredible game! It was well worth every penny! Sucker Punch and Sony I can not thank you enough for putting together such a satisfying gaming experience. The world is so lush and vibrant. The sound quality crisp and immersive. The game-play is a little tricky at first to get down, but once you get it there is no stopping your samurai bad assery! Nothing like a stand off when start by slaughtering three enemies and then switching in and out of your stance to just carve up the rest of the mongols like thanksgiving day turkeys that had the audacity to not turn and run. Outside of GoW I don't think I've had this much fun just slicing up enemies. A total 10!!!
This game is something that I feel like anyone could pick up, a new player or an old player or someone who is just looking g to have a good time playing games. The story is compelling with great characters, relationships and twists that keep you very interested to figure out what will happen next. The wold is vast but no boring by any means, you get a very good sense of the world and how things you do or don't do can effect the world around you. I was never frustrated when I found out I had to travel across the map because I knew that I would always discover some new biome or area that is different from the others, weather it be a new forest full of colourful trees or a burning village or a new outpost that you can fight your way through. You can find new things in every section of the map and non of them feel out of place anywhere. Gameplay is some of the smoothest things I've played in games, from horse riding to fighting through a group of enemies like a true samurai or taking out enemies in the thick of night as the ghost. No thing ever feels boring or clunky but it all makes you feel like the coolest person in the world. I can only recommend you buy this game and say that I hope this this ends up as game of the year for its simple yet powerful story, the satisfying and clean gameplay. I hope you look past the unnecessary controversy and see the beauty and care that was put in this game.
Nunca he conocido a un Samurái pero si eran todos igual de insulsos que el protagonista de este título, me alegro de que los mataran. Mundo abierto tipo Ubisoft, todo lleno de puntos y de cosas por hacer que no se acaban. Tipo Ubisoft pero bonito. Porque menudos paisajes guapos se han marcado. Si eres de los que se masturban viendo paisajes, este es tu juego. Está muy entretenido, puedes acariciar zorros y el combate pues no es el del Sekiro pero también está muy bien. El modo foto es para casarte con él.
This is undeniably the game of the decade. An unbelievable game created by an amazing developer. It is a stunningly beautiful game and one that should be in any game collector's library.
Fantastic game!! Can't stop playing it! So glad they didn't ruin it with all that SJW crap. A pleasure to play after TLOU 2 disappointment. Just beat my 2nd boss and I'm a 66 yr. old female gamer. Missions are fun, combat is fun, combat is challenging, finding shrines and other perks is fun, story is good and I love the little endearing touches like petting the fox and Jin's horse bumping him with his nose. Only thing I would change would be having the hat and mask items be more than decorative as in adding to health or resolve. Much better than Assassin's Creed, I think.
THIS is the real masterpiece, not The Last of Us 2. GoT is very relaxing and satisfying! It's perfect for times like this You won't ever regret buying this unlike TLoU2.


Simply a work of art. The composition of scenarios, a captivating story, a superb graphic detail. Probably the best game so far this year. Congratulations
I originally believed that the last of us part 2 would be my game of the year. After that fiasco I thought it would be cyberpunk 2077, then I got my hands on this almost master piece of a game. Its been a long time since I have been so excited to clear my schedule to play anything with the direction of the games industry. Day one patches, broken games sold at full retail price, micro transactions out the wazoo, rushed development, crappy DRM & games that require you to always be online. If you’re even considering buying this game it is well worth the time and the money, I can almost guarantee you’ll enjoy yourself.
Jogo lindo, história muito boa, e uma gameplay quem faz uma mistura lembrando assassina creed no seu modo stealth farcry na invasão de acampamentos inimigos, um mapa lindo w gigantesco
this game was a long-awaited step into fresh air with a good look back on older gaming mechanics and beautiful open world
A few things hold the game back. The camera control is fairly bad. Lacking in a target lock on aspect makes combat challenging. This can be both good and bad. You can easily get mobbed by enemies and end up dying often because of this. Overall the game is fun. Visually it is stunning.
One of the best games of this year so far. Each of the elements is made with a soul. Sure, there're some weird moments, but they don't spoil an overall impression - you just live inside this game.
Such an amazingly fun and beautiful game. Game play is amazing, well thought about and never a bore. The look and feel of it just makes you want to keep playing. Exploration is fun, vibrant and has a satisfying feel to it. The hidden features in this game make it all the more charming to play. Going forward more developers should take a leaflet from this game and expand on its principals.
Игра просто 12 карликов/10, купил не зря. 50% времени потраченного в игре я провел сочиняя хокку как в игре так и вне ее. Эта игра сделала меня поэтом
Amazing game a complete package great game play one of the most beautiful looking games I played all year and the story is written very well and delivers the intended emotion totally game of the year
From the first battle on the beach you're thrust into the game's amazing combat system. The open world is alive with bandits, peasants, and the ever threatening mongols. The island of Tsushima is absolutely beautiful, im addicted with taking pictures of Jin, his friends, and my horse..as well as the environment. The story is engrossing, the characters are interesting, and even the repeating quests stay fresh with uniqueness.

Visualy the most beautiful game I've ever played, story is legit (based on real events) each side quest has a purpose. Gameplay seems so natural. A game that teaches you about friendship, family, duty, respect and selfleshness. Definitely GoTY.

The story of Jin Sakai is in of my favorites I’ve played in console generation, tugging at he heart strings one second and making you a brutal ghost the second, and I almost 100% this title

Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good Very good

Great game. Yes, many of the mechanics you may know from other games, but it is the execution that makes this one Exceptional. Beautiful, dynamic, well paced. At times I nearly thought I was staring in my own Kurosawa film. Triggering memories of watching the Seven Samurai from my youth.
This game is great. I really don't understand how it could be reviewed as anything less than a 90. Don't believe the haters. If you want an open world game with tons of points of interests and collectibles, and, the best part, combat that you actually WANT to engage in, then this game is for you. Oh yeah.... those graphics bruh...! wow!
This game is a breath of fresh air. Gorgeous open world. Fun game mechanics. Best of all... no SJW bulls&#@! Finally!! Thank you Suckerpunch for restoring my faith.

I recommend to start the most important part the gameplay it’s good you can either choose to be honorable or dishonorable the honorable side of gameplay let’s you fight enemies head on while being dishonorable let’s you form your own playstyle with a variety of tools both feel just as satisfying but let me say this your playstyle doesn’t affect the ending as for the story it’s well crafted I’m not going to reveal key bits all you need to know is that it’s good the graphics in this game are **** beautiful and the game know that so it gives you a very well designed photo mode the world is full of things to do you’ll probably notice how side quests tend to follow the same pattern but the characters and gameplay made up for it personally I never really had any major complaints other than the camera being a bit weird sometimes but that was probably my fault so I’m giving it a 10/10 I’ll compare other games in this genre to this game
hermosa representación de japón feudal, una gráfica hermosa, paisajes hermosos, historia muy emotiva y cargada a las películas sumarais de antaño como las fueron de Kurosawa, jugabilidad hermosa tanto sigilo como peleas estilo Assassins creed en su apogeo, algo mas variada gracias a las posturas y clases mongolas, un jefe final digno de un juego... una verdadera obra de arte para nosotros los jugadores.
بازیو هنوز بازیش نکردم فقط اومدم فارسی رو پاس بدارم چون دیدم برو بچ ژاپنی کامنت ژاپنی گذاشتن و البته حدس میزدم این بازی بترکونه و کسایی که این سبک بازی رو دوست دارن توصیه میکنم فور انر رو هم از دست ندن خیلی خوبه بازیش

Excelente juego Historia 10/10 Forma de contar la historia 10/10 Sistema de Misiones 8/10 Gráficos 10/10 Sistema de batalla 10/10 Diseño de personajes 10/10 Interface 10/10 Duración del juego 10/10 Velocidad de carga del juego 10/10 Relación Precio- contenido 10/10

Best PS4 game I've ever played. Don't compare it to Far Cry. The open world is absolutely stunning and immersive. The side quests push character development and are legitimately interesting. What a great game.
Приятная игра лучше чем ласт оф говно, побольше таких игр, а то не в чего играть, ставлю 10, потому что фаны ласта ставят 0
I had a perfect experience with this game. The dude mutations are all nice with interesting little story's themselves. Has to be one of my favorite games ever
I absolutely LOVE this game! The parrying, the blocking, the awesome story, swordplay and gameplay and it’s just so...BEAUTIFUL to look at. Sometimes I just sit and stare at the Japanese beauty of Ghost of Tsushima. The mysticism and spiritual feel is special. It doesn’t hold your hand. If you mess up it’s YOUR FAULT. You just have to get BETTER. BRAVO to Sucker Punch for this MASTERPIECE after being...disappointed in another game RECENTLY that didn’t respect its fans enough to be straight with us going back to it’s lies in the trailers and false advertisement. This game didn’t do that. Ghost of Tsushima Totally as advertised
Great sword play and mechanics, challenging combat. Story is good and not filled with forced SJW narrative. Graphics are amazing, and loading times are so fast, even on old ps4 concole. My top 5 game to this date!
This game blew my expectations out of the water. Feudal Japan is not a remarkably interesting setting for me. Samurai's fighting is not interesting to me. But Ghost of Tsushima fashioned a setting that made it impossible for me not to love what Suckerpunch created. From the prologue, I was hooked with a meaningful beginning through this journey. The storytelling, gameplay, and environment are phenomenal pieces that all combine to make one of the best experiences I have ever been apart of. This is a game I would recommend to anyone. I am but a simple man so I will list some pros and cons and end with a short explanation of the ranking I gave. Pros: (In no order) Combat felt wonderful, not only in terms of balance and difficulty but also because it looked so awesome. The environment is one of the prettiest I have ever seen. The story was well thought out and genuinely made me feel for the characters while I was playing. Side quests always felt significant. I never felt like I was interrupting something SUPER IMPORTANT by doing something comparatively less important. The skill tree and item system made me think about how I wanted to play. I did not feel like I had to pick a skill or upgrade anything because it was better than other things. I picked and play how I wanted because everything was useful somewhere. Interest points felt varied and not like there was an overwhelming amount strew about the island of Tsushima. Even ones that are repetitive offer something new to see or expand on. The main antagonist was excellently crafted. I was not only made to feel scared and angry but also, I was able to empathize with his cause. Cons: Certain areas would be overwhelmed with enemy forces and it would usually be an indicator of “No that’s for the story. Get away.”. The ~parkour~ system felt generic and a specific mechanic of it felt wonky at times. Some skills would have automatic tracking but seemed to not track as well as they should. My true rating of this game would be a 9.6 so I will round up to ten since Metacritic does not allow decimals. My last two cons are just nitpicking and do not affect my score much. But telling me I cannot do something in an open-world game ruined my immersion when I happened in those areas. Overall, this game is near perfect and enters my personal top three games of all time. Not number one (The Witcher 3 was a solid 10/10 for me) but I cannot decide on it being my second or third choice. If you have read this far, I thank you for reading. I also want to thank Suckerpunch and Playstation for creating such an excellent experience.
Story, graphics, gameplay, and characters brings this historical fiction to live and it’s a hell of a journey. This game touches on subjects that must people in our society forget about and goes in depth of those concepts. Lively, stout, and Precise
Игра очень понравилась. Всем советую. Игра на много лучше игр ассасинов, боевка просто шикарная. А виды просто завараживают.

Es un juego con unas graficas excelentes rodeado de una ambientacion al puro estilo de peliculas japonesas con una historia y una jugabilidad donde al principio la vas a sentir algo lenta pero segun avanzas en el juego y vas desbloqueando mas habilidades tanto la historia y la jugabilidad se van poniendo sumamente interesante RECOMENDADO
What a masterpiece! Truly an open world game where u can approach things the way u want with new and innovative ideas like guiding wind, animals and birds inviting to you to explore the island, superb music, deep combat, beautiful graphics it improves on everything red dead redemption 2 lacked on Truly a masterpiece
Slavs rejoice, for now you can chop down Mongols without the risk of going to jail! Hah. Okay, I'm kidding. In fact, the game is 8.5 points, if you evaluate it objectively. But I'll bet 10. From now on, this is my favorite game (after the Witcher). The best visual in the gaming industry (not the graphics themselves, but the beauty of local views). Good graphics. The gameplay is based mainly on killing Mongols, but it doesn't get boring! The combat system is very well made, it is a classic "fast blow, strong blow, block, parry" but in an improved form. The plot is also based on the classics of samurai films, and this is not bad. But why then an objective rating of 8.5? in small things. The game has small nuances that slightly spoil the gameplay. For example, the names of the protagonist, important characters for the plot are forgotten. But this is because of the Japanese theme, they just have similar names. In General, of course I advise you to pass and re-try the game, and 100%, with all the quests and secrets!
First of I'm gonna start by saying:Sucker Punch,good job! You guys managed to create what has been a dream game for me,so don't let the disconnected critics put your spirits down.I have already finished the main story,the mythic quests,and a large part of the tales and collectibles.I fully intend to 100% this game and get platinum on it because it deserves the time investment.The world is beautiful,the combat is slick,the story is well written and well-acted both in English and Japanese.There were a couple of weird bugs here and there,the lip-syncing wasn't perfect but it wasn't enough to detract from the experience.It's 100% a game that you need to try out if you are a fan of samurai media!
I signed up for Metacritic as an casual reviewer just to praise this game and get the word out that this will be one of the best gaming experiences many will have, period. This is not an exaggeration. The game will knock your socks off! Be fore warned this is a long review, but def worth the read as it details what this game has done right! Spoiler free for those deciding to buy or not. From the get go, the game throws you into a visually breathtaking world that you traverse and explore. Of the many PS4 games I have played, this game has some of the most realistic and incredibly rendered grass and lighting for a PS4 title. Not to mention the incredible views you can captured with the share buttons on the fly. Throughout my PS4 experiences, I've never taken so many screenshots in one single game, and most of the pictures are without editing at all. However, editing the picture is one of the options. Visuals aside, Sucker Punch did a phenomenal job creating an interactive and unique open world with tons of different locations to explore. Plenty of times in other games, you feel that you've been to the same place over and over again. In this game, its the opposite feeling. Every new area I explored will use up all the tools and techniques you've acquired and learned during the game. In these areas, the tiniest of details are also something to take note of, especially during and after completing side missions. In regards to side missions... In comparison to other games where these missions are repetitive gives an unsatisfying reward for completing them. This game makes each of them feel its own story. The different "tales" in the game, especially, makes player feel connect to the characters in those missions. The main story itself is quite a journey as well. Overall, the storytelling is great! In mentioning about combat, the game did a great job of making one feel like a true samurai. There are many tools to get to make the game feel fresh. There are also quite a few enemy variety making different fights very fun and truthfully strategic. Without spoiling anything, the "boss fights" encountered in the game are pretty cool too. The game performs quite well despite the large amount of activity on the screen. Speaking of performance, the game runs quite well on the PS4 Pro. Even on the base PS4, which one of my peers owns, he tells me the game runs very smooth. In addition, one of the games' greatest strengths is the fast loading. The team at Sucker Punch completed a very difficult feat, by having super fast load times! Comparing the loading times to another big open world game, Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild on the Nintendo Switch, Ghost of Tsushima loads even faster than that that game does it feels. The longest loading screen through my time in the game is less than 10 seconds in more densely populated areas. Fastest times are within a second. That is incredible given the fact that the game is graphically stunning in 4K and runs at a smooth frame rate. Talking quickly about side content and the Legend rank system. The game did a great job with pacing and making me feel rewarded for completing activities. Participating in the side contents are progressively helping one to rank up, in addition to the helpful rewards for the journey ahead. As a result, I encourage everyone to actively go for any new areas you find in the game and complete them. Your gaming experience on the Island of Tsushima will thank you. Overall, Ghost of Tsushima is an extremely strong Game of the Year contender for me. In fact, this game may be one of my favorite Open World games of all time. The fun I've had and the journey I've been on is like nothing I've ever come across before. And I have indeed played many great games before, like Skyrim, The Witcher 3, Horizon Zero Dawn, Red Dead Redemption, just to name a few big names. This game shows that Sucker Punch cares deeply about creating a game out of love for the environment they are trying to replicate. The attention to detail and character building are strong indicators that the studios made this game right. It proves that in a gaming world with plenty of corporate doing the talking and deciding if a game should be made or not based on profits and revenues, there are still some studios that just want to make high quality titles that fans want. I honestly cannot wait to see what Sucker Punch makes next. If its anything like Ghost of Tsushima, I'm already on board. Ghost of Tsushima is for sure a 10 out of 10 experience. Must Buy Game. The critic review scores do not give this game the justice it deserves. Playtime: Over 60 hours. Platinum Trophy achieved. Passionate Gamer.
One of the best open world games of the PS4 and of all time, sucker punch nailed it in all aspects, gameplay is fluid and intuitive and very fun, atmosphere is so immersive and oh my god the scenery is so so beautiful !! The story is perfect as its deeply engraved in japanese history and tradition, which is for me an excellent choice ! well done Sucker Punch for starting the Gen 4 and finishing it with a punch !
Solid game. reasonable story that’s a bit one paced and verges on taking itself too seriously at time but nonetheless interesting, amazing open world with lots to see and find
"Призрак Цусимы„ это закат платформы ps4, в целом игра подойдёт для каждого, сюжет довольно прост и понятен, отдельное спасибо за самурайскую боёвку! Удары, приёмы, навыки и таланты просто впечетляют разнообразием.Об остальном я говорить не буду я не критик.


Ghost of Tsushima was a game I was initially sceptical about because I thought it wouldn’t ‘live up to the hype’ when I initially saw the reveal trailer and gameplay. I can safely say it is one of the best games I have ever played, right up there with 2018’s God of War, and like God of War it deserves game of the year, in my opinion. The story is filled with emotional moments; not once did I feel like anything was forced. The flow from each act was superbly executed. Never have I felt so emotional about a game since again God of War. Between Act II and Act III is we’re the tissue box came out. The gameplay was outstanding, it was a little tedious (fighting wise) to begin with but once I got the hang of it I couldn’t help but feel like such a badass. The duelling mechanic was a welcome surprise as I thought it was just for show during the release, but I was completely wrong. The Voice acting was brilliant and they deserve so much credit, I was hanging on every word they said. The visuals, I can’t begin to express how unbelievably beautiful they were, just absolutely jaw dropping. Thank god for photo mode, Inari be praised. Lastly, the soundtrack, needless to say the soundtrack has been downloaded to my phone it was that good, goosebumps. Had the perfect amount of emotion for those heavy hitting scenes, the battle music was just perfect. Just can’t express enough much I have throughly enjoyed this game, can’t wait to play it again on PS5. Hopefully it gets either a load of DLC content or a sequel. Absolutely outstanding job Sucker Punch, you ended the PS4 generation with an absolute masterpiece in my eyes.
I have just finished this masterpiece. If you play no other game this year, I humbly suggest you play Ghost of Tsushima. It is a harrowing tale, but one rooted in both folklore and history. Jin Sakai is perhaps one of the most fleshed out protagonists that has ever been created in this medium. Sucker Punch Entertainment hit this one clear out of the park. A solid 9/10.



Game muito bom , jogabilidade incrível, gráficos não tão realistas mas com foco em arte muito impressionante . Só quem está jogando sabe o quão bom é este game
Wirklich sehr gutes Spiel, mein Favorit für dieses Jahr. Das Spiel hat mir besser gefallen was die Atmosphäre und Authentische angeht liegt es KM vor The Last of Us. Ich liebe das spiel obwohl ich wa noch nicht durch habe, aber siw Nebenquest sind teilweise wirklich gut geschrieben. Das Spiel hat doe Games of the Year verdient.
Jogo incrível, a arte do jogo faz com que cada frame do mapa parecer uma pintura. Jogabilidade muito fluida com um pequeno problema com a câmera, loads muito rápidos, jogo surpreendeu minhas expectativas.
My journey at the tsushima island was one of my best adventures soo far, the combat is just perfect, nice stealth, nice History, perfect music, and the graphic a are just.... I love this game so much


A wonderful last peak of the great (time-)exclusive games of the PS4. While being a PC player first I love the PS4 lineup and this game marks a fulminant end of an era
I haven't felt this invested into an open world game since witcher 3. This is a refreshing game with many things to do and the detail in the graphics and side stories is amazing.
I'm gonna keep it really simple. It is absolutely gorgeous. The combat is entertaining and addictive. The story is a Great deep samurai adventure with a lot of heart and character. There's variety in gameplay, variety in exploration and variety in environments. The side characters are well made with unique personalities and entertaining to interact with. Honestly it is probably the perfect send off to the PS4 generation. I would love to give a 9.5 but they don't have that so I'll give it a 10 to push it up a little.
The best open world experience I've ever played. When playing I feel immersed in this environment created by the studio. It feels like I'm in a Samurai / Ninja movie. Combat is the strongest point of the game. Fight with style! What a wonderful thing. Congratulations! I loved this game!
Where to start with GoT... By the opening, I was already invested into this game. Jin, the main character, is fighting to save his home against the invading Mongolians. Instantly, you get to see this game will have beautiful set pieces. The opening turns into the games tutorial. But, it’s not long at all, gets to the point, and teaches the fundamentals. Other developers could take note here. Let ME, the gamer, get the basics, and move on. Soon after, you are thrust into the open world! And oh my goodness, is it a moment to have. Once you realize the beauty of this game, you get excited to see every inch of it! From the coast, with crashing waves, to roaring snow capped mountains to the North, and in between, the Golden Forest (one of my all time favorites). From here, you're free. Although I would suggest playing a few main missions to get your footing. Most of the map is filled with activities that boost your character in a multitude of ways. From holding more charms (little boosts), to more health, and finding unique katanas. You can find groups of enemies everywhere! Sometimes they took someone captive, which provide info of the map once freed, or they have supplies which help you upgrade. There are a few things to customize. Like what jin wears. From armor, head bans, face mask, and your horses saddle too. Outfits give bonuses depending on your play style. This is OK, most look good. However, sometimes you may get stuck wearing something for a bonus which is useful, but not your favorite. GoT SHINES with its combat. Extremely visceral. In my opinion, play on hard. This takes away all combat indicators. You will have to learn attacks quickly, even listen out for the bow and arrow enemies calling their shots, so you know to move to safety. The only thing I wish, was more combos. But, you do have four stances, each stance looks different, and the moves that come with them. So there is that. Still, something to learn for the more hardcore, is never a bad thing. The story it self is a revenge, honor, adaption tale. Samurais were extremely prideful. Rather facing an enemy head on, then sneak. This is not how the Mongols fight. usually outnumbering, flanking, their enemy. They are there to win. Jin realizes this and, although against his judgement, decides to adapt the playing field and take on new methods to fight back. This is where sneaking, bows, tall grass, and other options comes into play. Giving the player choice on how to tackle the issue. The main missions are a mixture of play styles. Usually picking one, and going with it. Of course the open world, is yours to play as you see fit. For me, sneaking is fun and I do use it, but getting used to fighting took some time. it really comes off as, easy to pick up, hard to master. For a Japanese style game, made sense to me. I still can use work. It has all the fixings. Anywhere from, parry, side step, roll out, light and strong attacks, with, what I would call, light, combos. Combos are easy enough. With mainly holding down one button and taping it a few more times, to pull of something more flashy. I do not mind this, but again, something a little more intricate would have been fun. Something mixing the light/strong together. Maybe break guard into a flurry of quick attacks. Regardless though, I love this game. From visuals, to characters, and of course, the world. I am so happy Sucker took the time to remember, the world in a game can be just as much a character, as any NPC with a name and some voice lines. They knocked it out of the park! This world is EASILY, in my top 4 (BB, Witcher3, Horizon, and of course Ghost). I am glad to see this list grow since the year Witcher came out. Now, the game does have some issues. Mainly, repetitiveness. I found myself in the first location, finishing up the map, and markers before moving on (its how I play and come in last on beating a game). I was offing enemies in 1, to max, 3 hits. Which is realistic, however, boring. I was taking them out so fast, the fight was over before it began. Luckily, the second area kicked it up a notch and the fun came right back. But I am now contemplating stopping myself from upgrading my sword anymore. To keep the fighting intriguing. The second area introduces one of my favorite side activities (you will have to find out on your own). But lets just say, I died more times doing that side activity, then any boss up to that point. Which put a smile on my face! This last bit, is for my favorite part of the game. The duels! This is a one on one fight to the death! The arena is limited in space, beautiful set piece, music is perfect, and it comes off extremely cinematic! I feel the camera gets a little closer to Jin shoulder, so it feels more personal. Parries feel like a clash of might! Every side step gets the heart racing, and every hit feels like a victory! Out of room to write, which should tell you something! I think you should try it! Hope you enjoy
Been waiting for a spiritual successor to Tenchu Wrath of Heaven for 15 years and here it is. The game has a beautiful open world begging to be taken in visually, with a very hands off interface. While not reinventing the wheel the game rewards exploration. The story no spoilers, but it's your classic these people are invading go save your country, as bare bones as it sounds/is sometimes games just need to tell a cogent story in a straight line. Combat Assassin's Creed 2 meets Batman Arkham.Heavy emphasis on parrying which while punishing in the early game does get easier with progression and skills unlocked through play.. Audio is beyond beautiful that's all there is to say a lot of love went into it and it shows. The game "can" be completed fairly quickly if just rushing through main campaign but for those adventurers out there I bought the game on release 17/07.& Despite constant play only just unlocked the 2nd of three acts yesterday 22/07 so with time and love longevity is there. Cons. In the interest of fairness I would be remiss in not mentioning two bugs I've encountered both requiring a reset 1 while crawling through spaces sometimes you get stuck down there unable to get outm2.Getting on a horse that is not yours at times leads it to move with the player not being able to get off. Overall I gave this game an 8 as no game will ever be a 10. There is repetition in the gameplay so milage may vary entirely depends on if you enjoy the look of the combat.This is my first ever metacritic review after gaming for 30 years because this game deserves love, a clear passion project that if anything shines a light on the bloated mess that are microtransaction filled AAA "blockbusters" the game

Great game so far, apsolutely loving it. Reminds me of a mixture of The witcher and Assassin's creed. Love the gameplay and the archery is something else! I feel sorry for Xbox users not getting to experience any of these beautiful games. Well done Sony
Ok first of all cudos to Sucker Punch for executing this amazing masterpiece. What a journey. Secondly this game is the **** Thirdly, why are you still reading this, buy it now!
This game is a MASTERPIECE! It pays attention to detail and character build. I love the open world and I love being Jin such an amazing game and a must play.
What a masterpiece Suckerpunch has managed to deliver! Gosh, I am in awe with the breathtaking graphics. There is so much attention to visual details, all aimed at constructing not just a sense of authenticity (if you think about the intricate armors/outfits that the characters are wearing) but this sense of beauty, elegance and mystery that I feel is soo characteristic of Japan. The wind is the icing on the cake in this category, seeing as it interacts so gorgeously with the environments that Jin traverses--all the leaves and grass blades that dance in the wind are so mesmerizing to watch (it's also such a cool mechanic to help you navigate the map because it breaks this convention of having waypoints. I also love that they added how the wind and birds are these guiding forces which stand for Jin's parents, such a heartwarming detail!). The storyline is just as phenomenal, especially if you think about how the circumstances force Jin to be torn between two identities, how he pretty much has to break his code if he hopes to successfully deal with the Mongolian hordes that invade the island. The gameplay abounds in main and side missions as well as ways in which Jin can deal with enemies and I love that it doesn't hold your hand too much (aka it's not just a mindless hack and slash, you have to learn when to dodge, when to parry, how to use your stances efficiently or how to silently deal with enemies in such a way that you don't alert the whole group. And if you're not careful, 2-3 well-placed blows from enemies can bring you down in no time). Standoffs are imo the coolest part, they make you feel like such a badass. Admittedly, the Japanese lip-sync could be improved, there are some problems with the camera during confrontations, it feels quite rigid at times, and the AI has some issues here and there, but I don't feel these things could EVER take anything away from the experience. Overall, a solid 10/10, a guaranteed must-play. Contrary to tlou II, Ghost of Tsushima needs neither hidden agenda, nor political statements to be praised (it doesn't outright dumb down its characters to drive the story forward nor does it try to pander by changing the tone and focus of its story. It's a gorgeous piece of art aimed at taking players away from this crazy reality where everything has to bend the knee to snowflakey SJWs in order to be considered good) PS. You can pet the fox :D
I haven't been this addicted to a game since Horizon Zero Dawn or God of War 4. This is definitely going to be in my top 5 games of all time. The writing in this game is incredible. The fighting is addictive and the world is gorgeous. Many times while traveling to the next mission or a camp i just stopped and had to look at a beautiful scenery. This doesn't happen in many games. I have nothing bad to say about this game and i can, without a doubt, recommend this game to anyone

perfect, the graphics was amazing. gameplay is realistic. enemy's difficulty is hard at early game but they are easier at last game because Jin's ghost mode is too strong.
Beautiful open-world gameplay inspired by the likes of Witcher 3 and the recent Assassin's Creed entries. Excellent combat and animation designs. Great use of the power of the current generation gaming console which is already phasing out. Can't wait to play the PC port on my high-end rig with true 4K resolution and optimized graphical settings. In terms of historically accuracy, it's a bit lacking. It adds many later-period elements of the samurai culture into the 13th century Japan, which is a bit of a shame, as it is marketed as a setting based on actual historical events. But it's fine in today's video game standards. Definitely a step up from the upcoming Assassin's Creed Valhalla from what we can see so far. A breathe of fresh air in today's overly populated open-world RPG genre, blending the unique oriental culture with gameplay elements old and new. High recommended!
This game is Amazing. The visuals and combat are both stunning and visceral. The open world mechanics may not offer anything new per say, but what they do offer is organic and fun, even when you are checking boxes trying to complete everything (something i actually enjoy doing) that isn't want it feels like you are doing. there are so many things that can happen to you when going from point A to point B, and it doesn't feel repetitive because it is so enjoyable to either get into a stand off with some mongols or just pull out camera mode and take a bunch of breathtaking screen shots 10/10 am going to replay this one for sure my only complaint is that there is an end to the game. also some people have reported bugs or slow frame rate, i have a PS4 PRO, and i try not keep my hard drive maxed out, so i have not experienced anything like that.
Absolutely stunning game! From the looks of it it's going to be tough battle for Game of The Year between this and Cyberpunk(assuming it doesn't get delayed and fill the promises). Anyhow on to the game. Ghost of Tsushima is pretty much mix of Dark Souls and Assassins Creed style games. Open world with good amount of side quests available. Battles despite well done I will say didn't really bring me feel so much feel of Samurai but more of Ninja but maybe that's just me(game offers more stealth approach too for actual ninja style). Regardless it was a lot of fun kicking some Mongol butt. Aesthetics are beautiful in the game. One little nitpick I do have is the fantasy armor. If you go for historical landscape I feel like you should go all the way and not bring fantasy/future era equipment to the game. Still all in all I would give this game easy 9,5/10 but since system only goes for full scores it has to be full 10/10. As game I can't really find any real flaws that truly hurt my experience from it, just small nitpicks. Easily among best games in recent years.
The best game I have played since God of War or Red Dead Redemption 2. Great graphics in a beautiful world. Fantastic voice acting, whether you prefer English or Japanese. The combat is exceptional and I am still not bored after 25 hours. The side stories, or tales, are impressive. They are fleshed out and memorable. Try this game!
This game came out just in time, every game i was playing i had to listen to music to kill the bored, but this game made me play for 8 hours without stopping, and of course mad me forget about app called spotify...

Totalmente increíble! Los gráficos, el sistema de combate, la interpretación de la cultura japonesa de la era feudal... Son tantas las cosas que amo de este juego. Definitivamente lo mejor que he jugado este año.

Ghost of Tsushima is my GOTY and probably the best PS4 Exclusive besides the Persona 5 games. Not only is it visually stunning, has a great story and one of the best fighting-systems, It is also one of if not the best Open World Game out there. This game shows that Quality is better than Quantity (looking at you Ubisoft). The side-quests are really well made, no quest feels like others mostly due to the fact that the stories behind them vary greatly. And the Open World is just...breathtaking. All of the 40+ biomes feel unique, look amazing and together with the Guiding Wind mechanic, you never really need to open your map, since the game-world guides you without you needing to open the map 24/7 Of course the game has some problems, mainly the performance and camera work in some places, but besides that, everything Ghost of Tsushima does is simply perfect. If you look for a game that is worth the 70€, look no further. This game is a must-play for every owner of a PS4 , can't wait for a possible PS5 Version in the future! -Roose
とても素晴らしいゲームだった 海外の作る日本が舞台のゲームは、中国っぽい所があったり、所作に違和感を感じる事が多いが、このゲームではそういった違和感を感じない sucker punchが日本と侍についてともて勉強したのがわかる グラフィックはとてもゴージャスで音楽もすばらしい。音楽も日本らしさを再現できている。 ファストトラベルもロード時間が短く、ストレスを感じない HUDはシンプルで作品に没頭できる もっといいところはいっぱいあるけど全てにおいて高水準なゲームだと思う。






It's not a perfect game, but its is a masterpiece, the art, the details, the innovation of the wind compas and almost Always hud free experience seen in games like senuas sacrifice is amazing, the photomode is soo Good cause the game is soo Beautiful. The story grows on you and the characters are likeable and you understand them and their motive. Sure the AI is dumb some times but that's fine, it's such a small part of the game that this game deserve a 10/10, 10/10 dosnt mean perfect, it just means amazing
Amazing game. From the first 15 minutes, the game builds more of an emotional connection to the characters than most games do in tens of hours. The combat feels fluid, even at the hardest setting enemies seem almost as flimsy as your character (no AC Odyssey meatshields here), and the environment is simply gorgeous. Character development, one of the most important parts of a story game to me, is formed logically and makes even smaller characters feel important. Sure, there are some padding quests, but the scenery helps make them entertaining and the hundreds of ways to kill people makes for interesting combat techniques throughout.
Love every bit of it. For a small team, I was amaze by the graphics, the VFX, the combat animation. The story was so good. I love the fact that one of the Japanese voice actor they used for the game had also voiced voice of samurais from Anime like One Piece and Gintama.

A surprisingly fresh experience with a highly interesting story, combined with great characters, a beautiful world and truly fun badass Samurai and Ghost combat.

Holy **** this was a wild ride from start to finish. The gameplay is just perfect, the graphics are trully amazing this is the best ending to a console generation!
The opening in this is amazing the story is interesting and fun, the visual is one of the best, combat is fun and can be challenging, the world is massive, love the way they use wind to navigate make more immersive, and there two type of ending so that is a plus love game that have bad and good ending. Highly recommend



This game made an amazing combination of awesome combat, beautiful scenery and compelling story. I even cried a few manly tears due to the story and it nailed all the emotional moments with beautiful music. I highly recommend to buy and play this game to those who are hesitant or not sure if it is worth the price. I guarantee you, it is worth every penny.
I can't believe I am saying this but GoT might be my absolute favourite open world game ever. I honestly prefer it to Horizon and Breath of the Wild. Beyond just graphics it is just a super fun game to play
This is honestly one of the best games I have ever played, please dont watch any videos just play it for your self. The story is magnificent and the gameplay is indescribable. 10 out of 10 game if the year.
Great game, great sound, great graphics, nice story! I love to explore the island and not get bored so far in a open world. They put so much effort to little details that makes difference... Well done sucker punch.
I absolutely loved this game. The world is beautiful, the story and music are amazing. In my opinion this is the best sucker punch game yet. I’ve put over 30 hours into and still have a lot more things to do. Needless to say this game is perfect with minor flaws that can easily be patched. Can’t wait to platinum it.
This game is criminally underrated! The fact it only has a single point above Death Stranding is absolutely disgraceful! It has such a great story, excellent visuals, it’s fun to explore the island, combat is engaging and challenging at times, has a lot of customization, collectibles, and has extremely fast load times. Support Sucker Punch; they put so much love and effort into this game!
Awesome game. It's so satisfying to have a game that is not tampered with current world garbage and it limits itself to be an interesting, beautiful and funny game. Has a enjoyable soft paced storyline. I hope you love the photo mode as much as I do.


Ghost of tsushima is by far the best looking game on PS4, The art direction is unparalleled The gameplay is expectional with a few annoying but non gamebreaking glitches. at the start of the year I wasn't into the idea of Ghost of tsushima but after playing it for a couple of days, I love it
Yes there are some bugs. But that didn’t change the fact that this is the most grown up game I have played in the 40 years I have been gaming. Finally a game that treats the player as an adult. Human stories, mixed with Buddhist themes. Honestly moving narratives ground the game in reality. Combat is thrilling and as your skill grows it just gets better and better. Every encounter is thrilling. I have never wanted to just go slow and enjoy the beauty of a game so much. This is everything I want in a game, and Ghost solidifies what makes PlayStation the must have platform now and into the future.
Single player games like God of War, Skyrim, Fallen Order, The witcher 3, and more fill my entire top 10 games list, but this game is an absolute masterpiece. It has completely blown my expectations out of the water. I did a 100% completion play through and I only wish there was more. 10/10 in narrative, graphics, music, and gameplay as this game is certain to go down as one of the greatest of all time and has taken the spot as my favorite game of all time. If you havent picked up this game yet or have any reservations at all, trust that you will have no regrets with this game except not playing it sooner.
Sucker Punch going all out with passion making Ghost of Tsushima coming out. This is literally the most beautiful environment ever in a video games, Combat feel satisfying an joyful, Side quest especially mythic and character quest is great with their own story.




Went to 4 different stores yesterday and I finally found a physical copy of the game. I’ve been playing it all night and just got done with my session. This game is absolutely Stunning Visually and The gameplay is Amazing with a Pretty decent Story. The more I play it the more I get attached to it. I can’t seem to put my controller down. This game is Quite possibly a Masterpiece in every way shape or form. Well Done Sucker Punch.
The main story and character tales are amazing. Soundtrack is on point The gameplay is excellent, and the best part is that it is dictated by the way YOU build Jin, which is dictated by the way YOU think Jin should fight, which ties the way YOU play to the main story, even without a karma/honor system. Mind blowing. Excellent incorporation of the swipe pad Minimalistic HUD is my spirit animal Menus and loading screens are very fast. I'm not even going to comment on graphics. If you give this game a negative review because of the downgrade, you're a spoiled brat. Character building is fantastic, like I said before, Jin will fight the way you build him to fight (specially on hard). And there's plenty of vanity gear. Difficulty: Definetly not Soulsborne, but challenging enough (the game is based on explorarion and story telling) Just buy it, man.

This game is simply magnificent. The fun he experiences is something I haven't found in any other game. If it were up to me it would definitely be the game of the year.

сакерпанч майо потениє игра года не меньше!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
No game is perfect, but this is as perfect as it gets! This is the samurai game I’ve always wanted.. sword fights are amazing, the graphics on this game are stunning! The photo mode is absolute fun to play around with. Now, I haven’t fully played the game through as I just bought it, but so far the story has me 100% locked in and engaged.. When controlling your character, that’s when it sort of feels a bit clunky, movements don’t always feel real but come on it’s a game, everything else greatly makes up for it! Haven’t don’t stealth missions yet but I hear they are a bit bugged and the AI enemy isn’t smart at all.. also, know that if you’re aiming to get all the trophies you can do so in the easiest difficulty, there are no difficulty locked trophies. I cannot wait to play this game as soon as I get back home! It’s all I’ve been thinking about! ^_^


I can feel the complete art of katana in this game and I feel special when in combat.The Stances are realistic and it is not unnecessary. They think advanced. The views of Tsushima, the culture of Japan, and everything is art. This game is ART! The death of Taka and getting of ghost armor is just epic.I haven’t finished the game yet so I hope the ending is epic too. Thank u very much to Sucker Punch for this masterpiece and I will sacrifice anything to play Ghost Of Tsushima
The samurai assassin's creed game we've been asking for years and never gotten, with one of the most beautiful settings in any videogame ever and the classic sucker punch gameplay polished to perfection, one of the best games of the generation.
I made this account on metacritic just to rate this Truly amazing game, first off this game looks stunning, the colors and lighting are a beauty Unlike anything I’ve ever seen before in a video game, the sun reflecting off the water and the sand, and the grass as it waves around, the wind blowing the grass and the trees in the direction in which it’s going is just jaw dropping, Second off the combat is amazing, very fluid and dramatic, the different stances to combat different enemies, multiple techniques you can unlock and use to become a better swordsman make the game very fun, third off the side quest are great, I personally didn’t play much of the side quest during my playthrough, here and there I did some, but I wanted to have some stuff left to do after completing the main story, fourth off and finale the main story for this game is spectacular, Sucker Punch does an amazing job of making you the player, feel love for the characters and story, the story will keep you invested and wanting to come back and play more, the soundtrack of game is beautifully written and composed and adds great emotion and feeling To the overall game, the voice acting is also great, although I wanted to play the game in Japanese dub I didn’t because I wasn’t a fan of the lip sync looking off, I have to say the American voice acting is really well done although it is in English the voices have an Asian accent Which doesn’t pull away from the immersion, either way both American and Japanese are good options and it’s really up to the player to choose which one they like. Lastly I wanted to say that I extremely recommend Ghost of Tsushima if you really interested definitely give it a shot and I assure you that you will love it!!!

Playstation once again shows why they are the king of console exclusives. Sucker Punch delivers on its best game to date. Ghost of Tsushima is not perfect but deserves the 10. It has a story that engages you, combat that is unrivaled, and graphics that look like a next-gen title. The more I played the more and more I fell in love with the feel and atmosphere this game offers. It has slower methodical pace, like people in feudal Japan would have lived, and yet there are excitement and wonder around every corner. This is the first open-world game I have played in a while where I felt like the side missions actually added to and complimented everything you are trying to accomplish in the game. I felt connected not only to the characters, but also the world they lived in . Combat is so smooth and easy to do, but takes time and effort to master, especially in the later stages and higher difficulty settings. The standoff system grows with you as enemies try to fake you out to get you to jump to soon, what a touch. It is of course not without it's flaws. A lack of a lock-on system in combat is not game-breaking, yet I sometimes found myself struggling to hit the person I wanted in larger crowds of enemies. The enemy AI in the game for stealth is at times laughable....like standing up from the tall grass, in front of an enemy, using my bow to kill his partner and then ducking back in the grass, and he loses track of me instantly like I was never there. I really wanted there to be a choice system like other sucker punch games, and I can see why they might want to do something different, but I think it really would have added to the way you play the game...as your legend grows. This game is easily the best game I have played in the last two years and only comes in a close second to God of War for best PS4 exclusive ever. I really hope that this is not a one-off game, as there is so much they can do with sequels in this games. PS4 can end its cycle with honor after this wonderful journey. 10/10

An amazingly beautiful game, and stylistic open world, topped with great combat and a compelling story. This game skips SJW non-sense and passes as a game with flying colors. I enjoyed every second of gameplay.
I almost quit this game after first 2 hours. I was sad that I can't get a refund. And then I gave this game a second chance. And I have no regrets at all. One of the best games ever made. My first ever game with 100% trophies. Visually beautiful (it's not about counter of polygons or texture resolution, it's about style), so many tiny details. Feels like a movie, not a game. All that personal moments and people tales strikes right to the heart. Music fits so natural. I love this game

Ótimo jogo adorei!muito bom !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Wonderful game. Just play it and you will know what I'm talking about. Loading time is superb too. Thanks Sucker Punch, this console generation has a Honorable end.
literalmente creo que el juego esta comoitiendoi para goty, jugabilidad buena, graficos tambien y el maravilloso sistema de lucha es increible, recomendado.

This is honestly such a good experience to play. The minute I started to play it, I was hooked. The game starts off in such a good way and the more you play it the more you get in to it's story. The gameplay is fun and easy to learn. And the combat is cool and fast phased and not just mindless slashing as you need to change depending on who you're fighting. Also how you approach a fight depends on what you prefer. The visuals are great. And you feel immersed in the game straight away. The enviroment is just beautiful. Best game this year so far without a doubt.


Excellent from any point of view. I have used the photo mode 5 times during the game, the story line kept me busy constantly.

One of the greatest console games released in the last 5 years. Please don’t listen to paid reviewers who are shilling for “woke” bucks and doing nothing but virtue signaling for other recent failed games. This game is a masterpiece and fun unlike some other recent releases that hammer you in the forehead with sjw bs the whole way through. Combat is fluid and amazing and the story is excellent in GOT. I will be playing for days to come. Worth every penny and What a real ps4 exclusive should be. Buy it now and prepare to have a blast!!
Ghost of Tsushima gave me one of the best gameplays I’ve ever played with an ok story and a very bad villain...
Beautiful world full of nooks and crannys to explore. Good not great side characters. Combat is fleshed out well. Customizing jin is fun. Side quests can be boring and repetitive. Luckily exploring a beautiful world and great combat makes up for any grievances here. If you own a ps4 you should definetly play this game
Hats off to Sucker Punch for giving us a wonderful samurai game that I've been longing for a decent one for a long time. Still, after clearing the game and completing the Platinum Trophy, I can't get enough of it. Everything is wonderful in the Ghost of Tsushima! Its really worth buying day one!

UN juego realmente completo en su sitio cinemáticas es mas a destacar en las mecánicas del juego movimientos de los personajes fluides en todo es un excelente juego nuevo se los recomiendo
This game, and it's score, should serve as further proof of the disconnect between ratings from critics vs ratings from real players. This game is a home run on every front. From the beautiful scenery to the engaging gameplay. Every bit of this game is enjoyable.
Esse jogo é uma obra prima concerteza vai fechar o ps4 com chave de ouro, coisa que um certo jogo parte 2 n conseguiu


Очень душевная и красивая игра! Хорошо провел время. Боевка на высоте! Немножко анимации подкачали, но это не помешало мне насладиться игрой. 9/10
The graphics are superbs, the storyline it's simple and yet verry pleasant. The open world it's so beautiful and full of secrets that on the first ACT and second ACT, I completed almost every secrets and finished all the second quests before touching the main story, (why, you may ask), because the side quests felt that they were part of the main story and the rewards were useful. The wind mechanic it's pleasant, the minimalistic in the HUD, it gives the best immersion.
"Ghost of Tsushima takes the best elements of Assassins Creed and Far Cry, throws in some of the signature Sucker Punch flair that made Infamous so successful and ends up being something that is both familiar and unique at the same time. The stealth elements are not the strongest, and aside from the missions requiring stealth, I almost always took the more forward approach to combat, but the freedom to DO that is part of what makes the game so good. Sony has consistently released incredible, single player, story focusedexclusives for the PS4

Ghost of Tsushima might be a generic open world game, but the story is really well written. Side stories have life on it and the combat is really satisfying.

Just finished the game after 50 hours and wow, what a great experience. Never was I bored, the story was interesting, even the side quests. The world is beautiful and I liked to explore it. The fighting is on par with Sekiro but with its stances different and never boring. The charakters are likeabel and good written and no unnecessary charakter deaths for shock value. Just the AI is sometimes dumb and the controlls while climbing a bit wonky.

The game looks gorgeous.Combat feels really good,need learn to parry and dodge attacks not some random button smashing if you do that you will be punished at least i was.Open world is amazing so much to do.Side quests are like mini stories for another characters in game.Wind guide is sick if you ask me just select on map where do you wanna go and enjoy traveling through amazing landscape.I really like duels.Probably some major review sites expected 360 no scope boss battles.As far i know there were only 1vs1 duels in feudal japan.Armor is looking bad ass.You can put different armor dyes which i found really cool.As a ghost you have good set of tools to your disposal.From bombs to bow and arrow.I really like open word games but this takes number 1 spot for me.Sucker punch games really went all in with this game.For me this game of the year and even better last ps4 exclusive.
This game is one of the game of the year contenders of this year vs last of us 2 and cyberpunk 2077. And for me who played and platinum this game it blew my mind. Please support Suckerpunch by buying this game because if they keep making high quality games we will have another masterpiece in the making. PLEASE PLEASE PLEASE experience the game for yourself do yourself a favor



Great game beautiful graphics and music short game but it's worth it story it's great to get behind and good to follow dark story on war and fight to protect your people even if that means turning your back on family and being hated

TLDR: The game is a beautiful experience, if what you have seen so far doesn't sell you on it, I don't know what will. Mechanically, it is one of the most enjoyable games I have played in a long time. The narrative effectively propels you to the end but it won't break the mold. It could use a few tweaks here and there but overall, it is definitely worth the price of entry. Graphics: Visually, this game is stunning. Not so much because of graphical fidelity (it's good but not mindblowing) but the style, the art direction that this game goes for... they nailed it. It's not too often i find myself compelled to actively search for reasons to use photo modes to get that perfect screenshot. The environments, the lighting, the effects are all fantastic. My only gripe on this aspect is I wish the photo mode had more options to play around with. Game Play: With regards to how it plays mechanically, is -nearly- flawless. There are some minor tweaks it could use in input registration in my opinion. Multiple times i found myself unable to attack or block due to a weird bug where I would try to block, it would do the animation but it wouldn't actually block an incoming attack. Thankfully it only happened a handful of times. Beyond that, the combat is some of the most fun I have had in a game in a long time. Kills, whether through ghost style or samurai style were just so satisfying. The animations, the flow, even minor effects such as directional blood splatter just immersed me in each moment. Exploration is fantastic, apart from graphics, it is often a rewarding experience to run off the beaten path. The game play loop, however, while a lot of fun is not groundbreaking and can start to feel a bit tedious. Even though combat is phenomenal, the random encounters get stale fairly quickly. Traversal is similar to the Assassin's Creed games albeit in a slightly more limited fashion. You can climb most things but you don't quite have the freedom in where you can climb a building or cliffside. Other than that, it is on point. I did not experience any issues beyond the occasional leap to my death when trying to step off a ledge onto a lower one. Narrative: The story is good, it's not amazing though. The pacing was fine, the structuring was good. It just wasn't super compelling for me. It does have it's moments though. Nothing quite like a good samurai duel that puts you on the edge of your seat. The character's were fleshed out decently for a open world adventure but I would have liked more of it. The voice acting for the most part was pretty good, though it was a bit unusual having the English dub be the more appealing choice due to animation sync. Not that it's a bad thing, just weird. There was some moments though that kind of broke immersion in that a character would say or act one way in a cutscene but then a different way outside of it that just took me out of the moment. Or when a character would repeat something the main character just said like they didn't just hear it two seconds before. Overall, the narrative gets the job done but it could have used some more polish, if for nothing else but continuity.






Good gameplay and nice visuals giving amazing atmosphere. I like how for many gameplay elements the developers weighted gameplay more than realism. This makes this „Japanese version of red dead redemption enjoyable.
This game from every part is amazing from graphics to story to the traveling and gameplay it’s all amazing Story: The story is great giving lessons on not blindly following because your told to, this is showed in jins story of his inner struggle to either do what he knows he must to save the island or what his Samurai rules tell him to do, which can be powerful, the side quests are surprisingly on the same level as the story even having more Emotional moments at times, I would recommend doing the evolving side quests which progress along with the story Gameplay: The katana fighting is amazing, the stances bring an interesting take on this partying system helping you break the enemies guard depending on which enemy type they are, there is only one issue with the gameplay and that is combat or even the general being inside small huts our houses as the walls and objects inside get in front of your screen and can get you killed, this also happens with big bushes, trees or objects in front of your camera, this can be an issue at times and is the only big issue I had with the game. Not having small animations when picking up items is refreshing as it does not waste time when trying to jump in the action as quick as possible, and at times makes playing a lot easier as riding on your horse you can pick up everything on your journey Graphics: The graphics are amazing with the vibrant colours of the environment and small detail in trees and grass, although the game doesn’t focus on the small human features as much such as perfectly defined faces, I think what they’ve done has more importance than that. Overall: The game is near perfect only having one or two issues that don’t define what the game is and can be fixed with game patches and updates, I’m giving the game a 9.6/10 but I can’t as there is only a 9 or a 10 option and 9.6 is closer to 10 so that is my score

I Really Love this game, the combat is satisfying that it reminded me of Witcher a bit, and the Graphics oh gaddem the graphics, there are some low textures up close but over all the Visuals are stunning and the use of color on this game, i got addicted with the photomode to make one as my wallpaper on my PC, the story is decent , the character are good especially the side quests mission story, There are glitches here and there but it didn't ruined the experienced for me, i have a blast playing this game, i loved Sekiro cause of the Japanese Setting, and this is game is for me, i just love Japanese Culture in General, and the Best part is, The Load time are quick to load, and i love how unique the Wind Mechanic as your guide that points on your Objectives Sucker Punch Really Outdone themselves on this one, Thank You.
The game is an open world where you will find different things to do as you explore such as makings poems or finding shrines or a groupe of needy people to help. So that encourage you to explore every corner of the map. Combat is good with intermediate difficulty in normal mode. Story is good. But character customization is beautiful. I loved how hard you have tocwork to gain a skill point.
A bit hard nonetheless a great game,one of the best open world games i ever played great combat system a beautiful world dynamic it will be one of my top 5 favorite games.
Игра шикарная, после 20 часов игры не надоедает, а всё больше и больше затягивает. Всем рекомендую
Absolutely great game.. the story, the visuals, the soundtrack are all executed flawlessly.. it does lack post game content though but still an epic game.
Столь красивая игра, заслуживает свою оценку, а именно 10. Финальный бой с дядей Сакая был одним из самых красивых в жанре видеоигр. Нам рассказали историю от нерешительного мальчишки-самурая, до настоящего воина за свой народ, то есть "призрака Цусимы". И вся история становления "призраком" по-настоящему заставляет сопереживать главному герою. Эта игра точно должна понравится тем, кто любит японскую тематику.
A breath of fresh air after a mixed year of releases in gaming. An immersive experience in a beautifully crafted world with breath-taking visuals. Even as a western made game it feels very authentic to the time period of it's setting with not much out of place considering that fact (perhaps not historically but hey it's a video game). The combat is fast and deadly with a matter of hits possibly meaning death which makes the player really feel like a skilled samurai slicing through enemies with well-timed parries, fluid movement and strikes. You are given many options on how to deal with situations and play in general, from a straw hat samurai who challenges their opponents head on to a stand off (duel) or a ghost who uses stealth, tools, and flaming arrows, using the environment to their advantage. The map is huge and well crafted with much to do, the empty space it does have is not vast and empty but beautiful and carefully detailed. The mini map system is none existent due to a unique mechanic they've added which is most welcome as it allows you to take in the atmosphere rather than focus on the corner of the screen. After close to 15 hours in I have barely scratched the surface of all there is to do and am happily looking forward to a long journey ahead. Definitely the best immersive samurai experience I've ever played.
Its a very good game in aspects of story, gameplay and combat. The only issue is that after finishing the game, it has no replay value soon since you get overpowered in and adept in the game even at hard difficulty and once the story is completed you go killing enemies without taking a little damage. i wish the game gets a ng+ with harder difficulties and more boss fight mission and Fort Raid mission to make the game complete, like God of War , we finish the game story and still have great challenge to kill Valkyries and then NG+ with harder enemies and bosses, we need it from Sucker Punch real soon
Ce jeu est juste une pépite avec une ambiance de dingue, un gameplay jouissif & une D.A. incroyable le tout sur une music des plus envoûtante & une map XXXL lol ! Jeux à ne pas rater si vous aimé les ARPG dans le style The Witcher 3-AC Origins/Odyssey, le tout dans un Japon des plus immersive!
Short critic: Excellent game, very good gameplay, gorgeous and that clean HUD should be the new standard. Story is actually good (no strange choices made by the characters) a bit predictable but nothing damaging the game. My only complaint is that the camera gets a obstructed sometimes. Longer critic: So what makes this game a good open world game? Immersion. Let me compare that game to the the last (released) Assassin's Creed (Odyssey). Here your HUD is pristine, empty, no compass, no augmented reality point floating telling you where to go or how many POI are close to you. Few exceptions, in combat your life, resolve and stance are shown. And when you're very close to the point you marked on the map (like less then 20m). The wind guides you where your map-marker is and it works really really well. To the point I'm considering not buying the next AC game because the HUD stays unchanged. Most of you have probably seen videos or pictures of this game online and I must say they rarely come close to the actual gorgeousness of the game (I played on a PS4 Pro in resolution mode with HDR turned on). Combats are brilliant, enemies are varied (move sets and appearances) and you need to use your different stances to defeat them. Stand off mechanic is very satisfying and gives you a real advantage in fight (if you don't mess up). I just found the enemies with lance being a bit too hard to parry. IMHO this game should be played in the hardest difficulty, it is hard but not overwhelming and forces you to use every tools you have. Very satisfying game, enjoyable, not too long (it took me around 50 hours to get the platinum trophy) it only needs a New Game+ mode now. If you have a PS4 and like open world game, this is a must buy. If you're on PC well let's hope Sony releases it at some point (like Horizon Zero Dawn or Death Stranding) because they really should (especially this close to the next gen release).

It is undoubtedly the best original ps4 game since Bloodborne. The battle of this game is so addictive enough to make you never get bored from start to finish. What a great game.
A ten doesn’t mean it’s perfect no game is, but I haven’t had this much fun playing a game in a long time, it reminds me of old school assassin creed, it has zero Micro transactions, likeable characters and fun and Active gameplay.
This is a game I didn't know I needed. I LOVE it!! It gives me a Shadow of War vibe and I really love that game too. Great work and I really hope for sequels to this franchise.
Ghost of Tsushima hit all the right marks and presented a story that was compelling, along with a lush world that pleases the eye. The more I played Ghost, the more I continued to think about it. While some of the game's mechanics can take away from complete immersion, Suckered Punch was able to capture a lot of the qualities most people love in a video game. Loved it.

Hands down one of playstation 4s best exclusive, Its a master piece of an open world done right. Great game play mixed with a good story. Definitely a worth of try.
Так, я играл в Призрака Цусимы 6 суток, последние 6 дней я безвылазно играл, отвлекаясь только на стажировку. Что я могу сказать по итогу? Мне очень понравилась атмосфера феодальной Японии. В основном именно она направляла по миру игры. Тут онсен, здесь поклоняются Инари, тут монголы и соломенные шляпы людей насилуют. Геймплейно всё не так радужно, есть некие всратости. А кому-то сюжет покажется весьма банальным и пафосным, ведь самураи гордятся своей честью. Персонажи интересные, кастомизация есть, брони много. В общем хорошая игра. Да, раз уж я завёл аккаунт на метакритике, то ещё что-нибудь оценю.
Sucker Punch did such an excellent job at bringing the japanese minimalistic zen atmosphere, which then is contrasted by badass katana bloodbaths. It is arguable if it has the best graphics but it's definitely one of the best aesthetic and stylistic package. It took the often intimidating open world rpg genre and vastly improved on it, making it simple and fun, yet deep snd justified.


If you like the Witcher 3, you'll love this game. The visuals, the combat, the sound, and historical accuracy of the game. I do recommend playing the game on hard mode, since it makes battles that much more meaningful. My only real complaint is the English dub actor is a bit sub par, but tbe Japanese voice actor is amazing.
nice game that is usually fun video games, has increased the power of PlayStation exclusives
Made an account just to write this review. This game is unbelievably great due to so much you can do in game. It improves on much needed aspects like exploration and combat especially in open world. I had recently got the platinum in the game and honestly felt that time was well beyond worth spending the last days. It truly surprised me in the most wonderful way when you had so much combinations of combat and character gear customization. What amazes me is the game pacing and fun due to many aspects mentioned above - combat and exploration. The story itself is fantastic and not to be forgotten, it really held up my attention more than I anticipated and that is just wonderful especially when you get distracted in open world games. If you really have any interest in this game I say buy it whenever you can and I promise you will enjoy it.
Pros: -good story -great character developement -alive world -side quest not feeling like side quest at all -ypu can pet foxes :) Cons: -a graphical downgrade since e3 -no lock-on button -weapon diversity


This is an amazing game. The only complaint's I have about it are that the touch screen controls aren't very responsive. The Camera can be a pain in the ass and it could have used a lock on system. It is a great game. I highly recommend it. These small thing are the only thing holding it back from a perfect score.
A beautiful game that will bring a sense of wonder to the most cynical and weathered gamers. Beautiful graphics and a perfect harmony between story, quests, and environment make one feel rooted to the world Sucker Punch has so carefully crafted. The characters fit perfectly into the the world; they're believable and aren't presented like pawns fighting for the writer's agenda. Gameplay is fun, but some might care for something more challenging. It becomes easy even on hard mode once your character is upgraded. However the boss fights still can be tough and take a few tries. A new difficulty mode in the future would be excellent. The stealth is fun, it isn't on the level of MGSV but holds water. Perhaps one of the most beautiful games on the PS4, Ghosts of Tsushima doesn't do anything revolutionary but what it does do, it does with grace and excellence. I love the game!


I love this game big fan of the Japanese culture and the fact that they did it justice is fantastic combat is fun and rewarding for learning how it works the funniest thing is that i started my ps4 life with a SP game and i end it with a SP game both of them gave me joy while playing i strongly suggest you pick this up if you can find it its sold out almost everywhere
The best game I ever played in my life!!!!!! The graphics of the island and playing as a real badass Samurai/Ninja is a dream!!! Combines the best elements of RDR2, Horizon, Witcher and BOTW and gets rid of their flaws. Absolute masterpiece and easily GOTY!!!!! Sucker Punch we gamers worldwide bow to you in respect and admiration!!!!

Not only the games is beautiful. But also the main and side missions are interesting and different. Love the lore and the mythical missions. It showed me Japan’s folk lore. The combat is awesome and very different compared and challenging. I don’t give it a 10 because of the stealth mechanics could had been better and also the game doesn’t explain some aspects very well. Overall great game. Sucker punch really developed a classic.
The Tsushima island is one of the most beautiful worlds ever created in gaming. This is further enhanced by the rich foliage and weather effects. The new take on exploration with no hud makes the game that much more immersive. Backed up by a great story with interesting side quests aswell and great characters, Ghost of Tsushima sets itself up as one of the best ps4 titles out there. The combat feels excellent , the stealth although with flaws still feels badass. You can definitely argue that the game has flaws but the pro's far outweigh the few cons. Thank you and peace be with you Sucker Punch.
Game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions, main missions. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. You got to play this game.
Great game, it might do things we have seen before in open world games but the seamless integration of side quests and collectables along with the beautiful visuals, and thrilling combat make this a great game I definitely recommend playing in hard difficultly though as the it was a little too forgiving with the other settings

One of the best gameplay I have seen , beautiful open world and graphics, story is really good also. Customization and exploration are the best. Really a must buy.
What can I say , what have not been already said... Strait out its a Great game. Well comparisons to AC or should I say Early( GOOD) AC and NOT garbage that comes out from Ubisoft filled with pointless side quest level Walls to progress through the story ..LUCKY for you NONE of it is in THIS game , This game is what I loved about AC series Great story ,Characters and not limits of how you approach the game AND YES HEADSHOT IS ONE JUST KILL...I KNOW SHOCKER, well unless enemy is wearing a Helmet Obviously. In terms of stealth this game can reaming you of AC but ITS combat is WHOLE DIFFERENT ANIMAL!! The Samurai stand off is a thing of beauty and a specially when again one of main Opponents makes you feel like you in one of old Japanese movies , Great stuff. I mean I can go on and on about all great stuff this game does but I encourage you to try it young samurai ..you would not be disappointed. Oh and did I mentioned NOT "TIME SAVERS OR SURPRISE MECHANICS " LOL. Thats why this game is 9 out of ten and 1 point is begin stolen by deer on the roof . Hope you liked my first review

Absolutely love the attention to detail of the time setting, ancient Japanese culture and combat. At first I was weary because of the open world aspect but SP have done a marvellous job in keeping me eager to seek out absolutely every corner of the map. The ratio of time spent on doing side missions and tasks compared to main quests leans heavily to the former. The combat is so satisfying and with all the extra techniques that can be achieved give you such a wide array of an arsenal that it literally makes big brawls look like a set movie piece. Thank you Sony and SP.
Such a beautiful scenery game. Katana action is amazing. After this game all the other games' scenery feels like empty. All the particle effects such as leaves, blossoms fully fill all your screen. Awesome!
I can't believe they only made Sly Cooper as a game I was even familiar with. Out of left field, this game is gorgeous, got me interested in the history of 1281? 12-- something exactly, but I love the acting, the portrayal of the characters, you even see how very tempting and charming the enemy is, but your heroes, and the Japanese of the time, rejected surrender. Without spoiling anything, the combat is great, the character development is great and makes sense, and gameplay is varied, highly addictive, and warrants multiple playthroughs in the same way Skyrim does when you want to play a different skill tree. You can watch lets plays of it if you want, but you'll be frustrated it's not you on the controller, some games you have to play yourself. Great way to relax when you come home.
What a wonderful game! Its story is solid without preachy political dialog. Just a great experience with a story about a man who is willing to save his people at great personal sacrifice. Well done Sucker Punch!

Great story! engaged from start to finish. no complaints. Great world-building, characters are unique. Slick and refined combat. a must-have for the ps4
Forget the beautiful graphics, the story is awesome and the setting is outstanding. This game needs to be played and i highly recommend you give Ghost of Tsushima a try.
Best game of this gen by far. Graphics that are on red dead 2 level of glorious. Combat that never gets old. Story rivaling the witcher 3. What more could ya ask for honestly

Played on hard using ghost skills (wanted to use everything the game has). Loved it! nice story, even on sidequests. ait makes you wanna know more. A little bit repetitive as any game of this style (AC, the witcher, etc), but its not a problem. I would expect better graphics, but doesn't change my experience.
The game is beautiful and feels like a mix of Red Dead 2, Breath of Wild, Far Cry and Horizon with a hint of Sly Cooper. I like that I can explore at my own pace and don't get forced into missions like many other open world games. I am really looking forward to playing it again on the PS5
Direction artistique incroyable, Histoire prenante , monde ouvert qui sait récompenser l'exploration, gameplay parfait et quêtes secondaires géniales ( même mieux que ceux de the witcher 3)..
This game is great!!! I love how they make the story simple and so good, I really enjoyed the story. The mechanics is the best comfortable mechanics I have seen in a while after I tried alot of games this game GOT is the best this year. This is what we want as a gamers!!! Not politics and


This game is a God damn Masterpiece! The world of Tsushima is so beautiful and is so diverse that there are so many beautiful landscapes that are not at all like other. It is so good that I purposefully waste time in the game so that I doesn’t end. You just have to play.
Ghost Of Tsushima has to be one of the best games I've ever had the privilege of playing and completing. The user scores just show how much more this game is loved compared to TLOU2. This has to be a strong contender for GOTY right next to Cyberpunk 2077 (when that comes out) Graphics & visuals in this game have to be some of the best I've seen to come out of the PS4 Pro. The way the wind makes the grass and flowers sway is stuff I've rarely seen this generation. A lot of effort and thought was put into them. The gameplay is just amazing to see with brilliant animations when it comes to combat, stealth and finishing moves. It's great to see when it is all Japanese samurai-like. The story in this game is really good with funny and sad moments. Many of the allies and companions along the way are relatable and interesting to learn about. All the side activities are fun to complete and gain that 100% platinum trophy (which I got) To end this review I think this deserves some awards in the future and deserves my score of 9/10. Beats The Last of Us 2 in so many ways. Didn't have to be political to sell. It's just a brilliant game.
the best open world game i played on ps4 Side mission are incredible and without Repetition..
Strictly one of the best game in whole generation. Maybe it not so advanced like Last of Us 2 (which is technologically flawless), but the design of the open world is the best in games so far.... It's like an art not a game. Absolutely stunning. Best Japan/Samurai themed game so far in my opinion. Graphics are great, music is great and a combat system (omg), like sekiro and good slasher combined.And The last duel of the game, masterpiece. It have some small bugs but they really not affect gameplay significantly Probably Last of Us 2 will be the game of the year but for me it's Ghost of Tsushima.
Ghost Of Tsusima, is so Freaking amazing! and beautiful! From the Gameplay,VISUALS,Music,Story and everything in it. Sucker Punch out did them selfies again. I highly recommend anyone that's looking to play an amazing game to get and play GHOST OF TSUSIMA!!! 10/10
This game is so addicting. OMG i have not had so much fun with a game since God of War. I want to thank the whole Sucker Punch team for giving us a superb game to play, and just sit back and clear our minds during these tough times. AWSOME JOB!!
This Game is a Whole Masterclass. I need to say that i was a bit Scared about this Game cause the more i saw it looked like an Assasins Creed in Old Japan. But Holy **** this Game is Miles Better than any of the Current AC´s. In Every Way. The Graphics is for me a 9/10. The Game works with Insane Good Lightings and a gives the Game a Very Very Good Looking when ur Riding ur Horse or Running. But i need to Say that the Game is Based to looked good in Fast Movement. Cause of the Impressive Lightning Combined with everything on the Grass is Moving or Trees + in my Opinion a Lot of Wettness on the Ground. But when u take a Look on the Ground in Camps or Areas u see that its a but Meh. Which means it doenst Look that good, on This Things also the Characters besides the Main Characters from the Different Story Types also the Clothing from Normal NPC looks a bit Muddy sometimes. If i need to Rate it Between other Game i Would say its on a LvL of GoW which is for me 3rd. Behind RDR2 (2) and TLOU2 (1). The Atmosphere and Music are Good Mix overall i liked it and it never feeled to much or Stupid. U get this Samurai Feeling All the Time so a classy 10/10. The Story for me is Good. But it has the Same Problem which every Open World Game has. Cause im a Player who makes Many Side Quest and Stuff the Story gets Loss besides it. The Story was Good but i never got an Emotional Impact or feeled like "Holy **** for me a 8/10. The Open World is full with Activities which Really Make Fun. The Map also isnt complete Overfulled with Dog**** Side Stuff Like in Ubsoft Games or so. The Quest Makes Fun even to Follow The Foxes or get the Shrines is Good. It overall dont Feel to much it is a Perfekt Fitting. 10/10. The Game dont has a HUD so u cant just Click a Point on a Card and see how ur Running towords this Point. The thing with the Wind is a New and Very Good Choice SuckerPunch did here. It also dont feels like a **** thing or that u need to Long to Achive a Point on the Map its Really Really Good Made. Character Customizations are Ok u Can Chance ur Armor, Mask, Hat, the Katana & Dagger Skin also the Bow Skin. Its Okay nothing so Special but still Fine 8/10. In This Game u dont Have a Grinding System like u have in AC that the Higher u go the Harder the Enemies are. The Game is Based that u Shoulöd Feel how Powerful a Katana is. And that is the Best Decission SP can have Done Her. I cant Imagin how Sad it Must be Feel to have a Katana and cant Compete Against the same Enemies only cause thei are 5 Lvls a Head or so. It Just Feels Real and Impactful. What i need to Critics are the Cutscenes, not cause thei feel Wrong Placed are so the Completly Fine. But idk the Cutscenes Feel so "Cheap" It doesnt Feel like Year 2020. Thei are a bit Out of Time if u Compare them to TLOU2 or Red Dead Redemption 2. The "Intro" and the "Outro" of the Cutscenes as i said feel a Bit Cheap in my Opinions.. 8/10. What i overall Miss a bit but well thats not a Big Deal in the Games At the Moment only RDR2 & TLOU2 made Them which i Realized was the Character Mimic. That u can see how a Character Feel. When he Talks about his Family Died or so. The Face Looks Permanently the Same. But i dont Give a Score for that. Cause not Much Games even Improved that. I Need to Give 1 Bonus Points for the Very Good Synchro and the Insane Good Looking Armours and Masks. In my German Synchro i had 1 Issue that when Ur Jumping the Sounds Jin Gives are the Japanes Sound that doenst Fit the Synchro that Well but that a Small Issue i have. Overall is the Synchro Perfekt. If ur a Trophy Hunter the Platin is very Easy and not Ginding **** Like other Open World Games. From my Side its a 9.2/10. Which means a 9 on Metacritic. i Hade Good i guess Arround 60 Hours until my Platin Trophy, and never got Bored. Have Fun Playing.



I still didn’t finish the game because I’m taking my time to enjoy every minute i got to play this beautiful game, of course it has some negative aspects like camera angles, some repetitiveness, the absence of activities and interactions with folks in villages and towns like we saw in RDR 2 for exemple, but in general, i can say in confidence that this is the best game I’ve played in years: the graphics, combat mechanics, skills branches, the customization and story, are Simply magnificent. I would give it a 9.5 but while that’s not possible, i’ll go ahead and give it a solid 10.
I really love this game and honestly it’s been amazing to learn how to explore, kill am specific mongol and ghost and stances weapons, also how cool looks all the armors and katana sets, love how sucker punch changed the rules for open word and how fast is it, Ghost of Tsushima got me making this side quest but they actually all pretty interesting and very related to main story and how mongol invasion is changing the island, love the fight and exploration mechanics and how the game can change due one moment you’ll find yourself killing a lot of enemies and one you’ll be meditating about Jin’s life or samurai values/struggles etc.anyway I’ll make it last as possible, really love the game a lot and trust me this will be game of the year, just an amazing game for a terrible and weird yet so fascinating year.

Loving this game!!! Had to wait a few days just so I could get a physical copy from ordering on line, since all my local stores sold out the first day.
This game from the very beginning captured me with the awesome graphics, superb voice acting, soundtrack, and specially that gameplay they are all so good and polished. The gameplay grabbed me from the beginning and once you progress through the game more and get used to how it works it's so rewarding, and sometimes challenging. Sucker punch took a risk with making a game like no other they have done before and it shows, this game deserves all the praise.
Played this game for 30hrs so far. I have loved every second of it. This game makes you fell like an unstoppable samurai. Killing groups of mongals making them fear the ghosts. The story gives you goose bumps, no too mention how beautiful the game is. I wish I had a PS4 Pro to experience it in 4K. Combat is amazing and has complexity and ease of use. Mastering the combat is awesome when you take on whole camps of mongals. Ghost of Tsunami is up there with God of War, Spider-Man, and Last Of Us 1 not 2 though. LOU2 was terrible. Take note Naughty Dog your supposed to kill the bad guy not play as him
Faz muito tempo que eu espero um jogo de samurai nesse estilo, não tô dizendo que jogos como Sekiro e Nioh são jogos ruins, apenas me incomoda o fato deles colocarem aspectos sobrenaturais no game. Já no Ghost isso não ocorre, é um típico jogo de samurai estilo Tenchu, por isso gostei tanto. GRÁFICOS - O jogo é feio? depende, o jogo é bonito? depende também, eu diria que o game é bem inconsistente, a água do mar na praia é uma lástima, coisa de geração passada, enquanto a água dentro da ilha nos riachos por exemplo é bem bonita. As expressões faciais não são nada impressionantes mas também não são ruins, são aceitáveis. Agora um ponto forte nos gráficos desse game é a ambientação, a qualidade as folhas caindo na tela é algo que nunca vi antes em jogo algum, é realmente muito bonito, e em determinados lugares do mapa com uma boa iluminação esse jogo se torna uma verdadeira obra de arte, as flores, a vegetação e iluminação são incríveis, isso sem falar na trilha sonora, dá vontade de tirar print toda vez. BUGS - Eu particularmente não tive muitos problemas com bugs, vi uns 2 bugs em que o personagem atravessa o telhado das casas quando vai matar algum inimigo, não teve nenhum bug pra dizer que o jogo estava injogável, tirando o fato do cavalo subir nas pedras de vez em quando kkkkkkkk. COMBATE e STEALTH - Cara, a progressão do personagem nesse game é uma das melhores e mais complexas que eu já vi, é um sistema de RPG muito bem trabalhado. É incrível a riqueza de upgrades que você pode fazer de acordo com seu estilo de jogo, eu prefiro jogar no stealth, no começo é bem chatinho e difícil, mas com o passar do tempo, se você upar as skills certas fica bem divertido, é muito perceptível a diferença, o jogo não chega a ser um souls like em questão de dificuldade, mas ele não é nada fácil, existem MUITOS e MUITOS itens coletáveis pra você melhorar o personagem, principalmente armaduras. HISTÓRIA e SIDEQUESTS (SEM SPOILERS) - Olha, a história não é lá tão impressionante, é uma história de samurai normal, isso não quer dizer que seja ruim, eu particularmente adoro, mas não espere nada inovador. As missões secundárias são maravilhosas e muito bem escritas, vocês não tem noção, eu diria que se fosse pra escolher os jogos com as melhores missões secundárias eu diria que são The Witcher 3, RD2 e Ghost, sem ordem específica, os 3 são incríveis. - Enfim, no geral eu daria um 8 pra esse game pois ele tem uns probleminhas técnicos que podem incomodar muitas pessoas, alguns bugs leves, gráficos não tão impressionantes (em algumas partes do jogo apenas, na maior parte os gráficos são bem bonitos) e a IA não é lá muito inteligente mas é aceitável. Eu sou um grande fã da cultura samurai então por isso que estou dando 10, mas se você pensa em comprar esse jogo esperando ver gráficos estilo RD2 ou The last of us 2 pode ser que você se decepcione, mas garanto que a gameplay e o entretenimento desse game é uma das melhores experiências que eu já tive.
This game is the closest thing to a perfect open world game as it gets. From the fast traveling to attention to detail, from the random mythical side quests feeling like you in a kill bill movie. I just loved the direction this game went it. It didnt pull any punches and my god can this game make a grown man cry. I lost my **** after a side misson quest line in omi village due to how relatable it was and how hard it home irl. Do yourself a favor and buy this game and see it through. Ive been playing it for a week and just finished it with at least 100 hours. The ending wasn't disappointing at all either which is a plus nowadays.
I was blown away by this game. Not expecting much, I bought it on a whim because it had something I enjoyed as a young teen-- Japanese culture and samurai. I am VERY glad I did in the end because of the breathtaking scenery, magnificent gameplay, and engaging story. The scenery is BEAUTIFUL in this game. The leaves falling to the ground around you as you duel against samurai had me loving every second of the environment. You can tell Sucker Punch made this game as an ode to old Samurai movies. The inspiration you can feel from the different elements from the snow covered mountains to the yellow tinted leaves. The only problem I had with it was a few glitches from time to time and phasing through certain areas. The gameplay is so much fun! The biggest draw for me in the beginning of the game was the gameplay. The different elements create a variety of ways you can engage in combat-- sneaking, duels, and my personal favorite was the Ghost Stance mechanic. This new feature made me want to stay away from getting injured as much as possible. The open world aspect is probably the best I have seen-- I enjoyed just running around and doing sidequests. At no point did they feel like sidequests to me because of how they managed to create the quests. There were only a few points where I was starting to get bored with it, but then I would just go back and do the main quest for a bit only to return to side quests a while later. The biggest problem with the gameplay was the camera. In tight corners the camera can def get wonky. The story was beautifully written and was a huge draw for me. The story reminds me so much of old samurai flicks. Yuna and Lord Shimura were fantastic foil characters in contrast to Jin. My favorite parts revolve around the ideas of which way Jin will progress-- become more barbaric in the way he kills or keep his Samurai honor. All the characters are really fleshed out (as long as you do their side quests). I would say Ishikawa-sensei was the weakest when it came to the personal story-- Norio and Masako being the strongest. Overall the story is fantastic, the characters are engaging, the gameplay is fun, and the graphics are beautiful. Graphics/Scenery: 8 Gameplay: 9 Story: 10 Characters: 9



This game is probably the most fun I've had in an exploration game since Shadow of The colossus back on the ps2. The environment is simply breathtaking and pulls you in to a point where you want to go sightseeing. The lack of quest markers is one of my favourite things to be honest, you don't realise how much UI makes a game feel like a satnav. Ghost of Tsushima does the opposite and says "hey, look at the wind. Maybe you should follow that fox" The combat is solid, it's fun and tight, all be it a little repetitive but it's broken up by stealth sections, stand offs, duels and all out battles so you never feel burned out before the next battle begins. The only issues I've had so far are very minor, random tutorials in the late game and bad lip syncing for the Japanese dub, nothing major but sometimes breaks the immersion. Lastly it would be the fact that it's PlayStation exclusive. This wouldn't be a problem for me as I've used PlayStation for over ten years, however a recent dispute with Sony over their terms of service cost me that account and all my previous games. Still, Ghost of Tsushima is fantastic and is probably the closest to an action samurai game there ever will be. Or a tour of ancient Japan for that matter


I don't normally feel the need to write reviews but this is one of the single most enjoyable games I've ever played. The perfect balance of challenge and fun. Combat is satisfying but can still punish. Definitely a must have game, and a perfect way to wrap up the generation.

This game is beautiful, fun, and addictive. I can't get enough. The story does justice for samurai. Its my favorite game of the year and I would pick it as my Game of the year. So much beautiful hard work was put into this game. One of the best gaming experiences I've ever had.

I just beat the game and it’s honestly one of the best games I’ve ever played the world feels majestic everything is gorgeous. The combat is really fun combined with the ghost skills. 10/10 honestly hoping we get ghost of Tsushima 2 Sucker punch did great at capturing Japanese culture.





I'm only in act 2 and have about 15 hours of gameplay in I absolutely love this game the graphics the combat the story Jen will be a new Sony character face that we will see in Sony trailers about PS4 games this game is truly amazing him is worth the wait I cannot wait to finish it

Лучшая игра что вышла в этом году, безумно красивая игра которая каждую минуту вызывает детский восторг, просто каждый кадр хочется скринить, а по поводу геймплея после ведьмака это первая игра в которую действительно интересно играть, и я имею в виду песочницу, все сделает так качественно что тебе самому хочется бежать по вопросикам и открывать их хочется захватывать аванпосты хочется играть на флейте возе какого нибудь обрыва , да блин я после каждого боя смахиваю кровь с катана))) вот просто шикарнейшая игра в которую приятно играть именно этого хочется от видеоигр , SP прыгнули выше головы ребята молодцы игра на 10/10 правда , я давно не получал такое удовольствие от видео игр. Знаете то самое ощущение как в детстве когда тебе хочется быстрее домой что бы ещё немного поиграть в эту игру. А по поводу сюжета все тоже круто атмосферно и в правильных тонах. П.С в игре нет не каких политически повесток это на столько приятно , и так сильно не хватало мне обычному игроку что только за это хочется расцеловать разработчиков и советовать вес кому только можно эту игру.



Наконец-то игра без дурацкой повестки, во всех отношениях хорошая. Ставлю авансом 10, но камеру ребята подтяните.
To say this game pushes the limits of the PS4 is an understatement. What a perfect way to wrap up the console, start to finish this game has been pure magic. The opening sequence gives you goosebumps, the combat makes your heart race, and the story keeps improving as you go. What more could you ask for? All around, this game is nothing short of a masterpiece. Thank you Sucker Punch Prod.
Beautiful game and an excellent job showing a Samurai doing what is right over what the code of honor says. One of those games you truly never want to end and you just hope there is one more mission.
Отличная игра без лгбт повестки. Никаких чертовых феминисток и мужиков пущенных в расход.
Ghost of Tsushima is an astonishing beautiful game, with very good controls and story. A game of honor. Sometimes going through the map is a little bit frustrating, having some unnecessary enemy encounters. I didn't like riding the horse in combats, either. Everything but this little flaws is very satisfying.
GOT is a beautiful game with a compelling story to tell and one of the most fun combat mechanics in a game to date. The graphics are beautiful with scenery that pop because of the colours and they really nailed the island of Tsushima and its culture. The main and side characters have good and fulfilling arcs. It was intriguing to see the main character change his values and the internal conflict he has with this change to save his home. The open world of the island of Tsushima has many things to do with plentiful side quests and activities that are beneficial for your playthrough. One of my favourite parts are the samurai duels that you will encounter throughout the story, they feel badass and can be challenging on the harder difficulty. I also enjoyed the legendary tales which would reward you with badass weapons or abilities. Additionally, the tales of the important side characters were great to playthrough as well, as it added more emotional depth to the characters. The only complaint I had with the game is that the enemy AI are dumb, especially in stealth. The detection meter is unrealistically slow and it sometimes broke the immersion for me. Sometimes I felt the game is best enjoyed attacking the enemies head-on rather than using the stealth approach and the missions that required to do stealth can feel really slow. Despite that, GOT is another PS4 exclusive that is a must have and has game of the year potential. Definitely going in my top 5 for open-world games.
As a huge fan of the infamous series and having played each installment to 100% completion, I was naturally was super excited for a new infamous game but then Sucker Punch announced this game and while I was disappointed that we weren't getting a new infamous game, I was excited to see one of my fav devs try something new. Then, I saw the trailers and I was excited but not as much as I would have been for an infamous game. Recently, having played FF7 remake, my bar for GOTY 2020 was pretty. And damn, did this game come close and is not just my second fav game of this year after FF7 remake but one of my top 10 games of this gen. It is a joy to play from start to finish. 1. Gameplay: This is the best part about this game and well, this matters the most. The game handles everything to perfection. There are two ways to approach most situation: the samurai/honorable way and the ghost way. I prefer ghost way for taking back some posts but the samurai way for most of the story stuff and random encounters. The combat is incredible. From the standoff to the sword and using multiple stances to fight different enemies, it is amazingly satisfying. Every encounter is a joy to play. It is not hard but it is that perfect level of difficulty that you at least have to take each encounter carefully depending on how many and the types of the enemies are there. Stealth approach tho is amazing too. You have to plan out and execute it and if you get it right, you will be able to do this in one go with no problem : and this shows why we need an AC japan game xD. 2. Story : This might seem weak at the start as you think "typical, simple, meh, heard it, been there, done that" but as you play more and realize what the story is actually about (apart from the obvious quest for revenge), you see why this is a perfect samurai story for gaming. I won't spoil anything as this is a joy to play through but rest assured, give the story a little bit of time and you will love it. 3. Art style and Graphics: fantastic, just wow. Easily up there in terms of graphics with god of war, red dead 2, TLoU 2, etc and I would say surpassing them all in terms of art style. The game looks amazing with a beautifully realized world and a really well crafted structured map. I would argue that this is an open world game : done right. Everything flows well. Forests, the small houses you encounter, the settlements : all looks authentic and well made. I would say that this game is the most beautiful of the whole generation. 4. Surprising but HUD: wow, I am surprised how much this pleased me but this game doesn't have any mini map, objective marker when playing. You just see the game and nothing else, an incredible level of immersion. And the way it handles tracking your quests : surprising but really really well done. Overall, 10/10. It is one of the few games I have ever thought is a 10/10. Highly recommended to anyone who has a ps4.

ขอชื่นชมทีมงาน Suckerpunch ที่ถ่ายทอดศาสตร์และศิลป์ ประทับใจในโลกของเกมส์ Ghost of Tsushima อาจไม่ใช่เกมส์ที่ perfect แต่มันคือเกมส์ที่สวยงาม ประทับใจที่ได้เล่นเกมส์จนจบ
I have not had this much fun playing a game since Bloodborne and Horizon Zero Dawson! The gameplay is so addictive, the environment just stunning, the UI and all the menu’s are so simple and clean yet deeply involved. SuckerPunch had my heard with in famous 1 and 2... (wasn’t so big on second son) but wow. Just wow. This game is one of the coolest games I have ever played in my life and very, very easily is in my top 5 of this generation and just as easily in my top 10 of all time. Huge props to the Kurosawa mode as well! I will play through this 3 times EASILY, and I know it’s way too soon to even be discussing this (and I don’t care how long it is from now) but GOT:2 is already my second most anticipated game (only behind the supposed Harry Potter RPG) thank you to everyone at Sucker Punch for giving us this miraculous game!
I was not one of the people waiting for this game...but i should have been. This game has it all, including a way to make everything feel organic and natural. The story telling being done through the amazing artwork and beautiful music is polished as a video game could ever be. I preferred to play with Japanese dialog and English subtitles and I couldn't be happier with my experience with this game. The combat is so graceful yet brutal. Can't say enough good things. Good Job Sucker punch! This should be the bar to reach in video game storytelling

This Game is awsome it never gets boring each time you progress along the story campaign. The awsome exploration is also the best experienced that I had during time I explored the Island of Tsushima. Overall GOTY(Ghost of the Year).

I had high expectations toward this game and i’m happy to say i was not disappointed! The game if amazing combat and graphics wise, the music is good (but not great in my opinion, although there are some memorable ones),landscape is breath taking, you’ll find yourself often stopping whatever you were doing in order to take a badass screenshot. The story in Ghost of Tsushima is having a mixed feeling from its player base, but for me personally, it has a very solid character base, which are both interesting and intriguing, main missions are amazing, as-well as your allies ‘tales’ (although short),but... the random side quests that you can find scattered around the map are just not interesting enough. They feel repetitive, uncreative, too short, and unmemorable in total, which is a shame truly. Enemy strongholds and camps are unique and hand crafted one by one, and it feels rewarding completing all the bonus objectives and collecting everything the camp has to offer. From technical point of view, i find it impressive that SP managed to deliver this amazing experience in a 47 GB package. I would say this is a very solid purchase if you find yourself loving samurai tales, or wanted Ubisoft to create AC: Japan (Ghost would be way better in my opinion).
From the beginning this game pulls you into the world and demands you to notice its. The few issues I have are overshadowed by the stunning in world mechanics like the wind, to the horse riding, to the ui.
This game is Top Notch, but its not perfect. The beautiful graphics, and scenery are probably some of the best I've seen in a game. That being said, we have been spoiled with games that have amazing physics engines that can create infinite death animations on the fly. It would probably would have gotten a 10 from me if it had this. Other than that, I would absolutely recommend this game to anyone on the edge about sinking some hours into gameplay. The story itself was very captivating, so its easy to fall into the world of Tsushima.
ما شعرت بمتعة مثل هذي من ايام البلايستيشن ٢ اللعبة ممتعة وجميلة جدا وقصتها بسيطة وسهل متابعتها والقيم بلاي ادمان انصح وبشدة
A Sucker Punch rendesen kitett magáért. Ez az eddigi legjobb munkájuk!!!! Grafika gyönyörű, a betöltési sebességek már már ssd gyorsaságúak, nem tudom ezt hogy csinálták de le a kalappal. A történet elég érdekes, jól bemutatja a középkori Japán-t. Dzsin Sakai karaktere jól ki van találva szépen elmeséli milyen is egy igazi szamuráj, és milyen áldozatokat kell hoznia a jó ügy érdekében. A térkép jó nagy, és tele van sok izgalmas felfedeznivalóval. Aki szereti ezt a témát, és a Kuroszava filmeket annak kötelező vétel!!!!!!!!!!

Отличная игра , боевая система , музыка , сюжет , второстепенные задания , дух Японии - это все на высоте . Единственный минус - это камера , надеюсь с патчами поправят .

Game of the year 2020 every thing inside the game is amazing you will injoy with the open world

This game is everything I could’ve dreamed of from when I first heard about this games development. First, Jin Sakai is an incredibly well done character. Daisuke Tsuji did a amazing job. Moreover, his character development is phenomenal. Furthermore, the other characters, such as; Lady Masako, Norio, Yuna, Taka, Ryuzo, Khotun Kahn, Ishikawa etc. are also doing brilliantly. I loved and was completely invested in every characters story and personality. The combat is excellent, with a plethora of techniques and mechanics which help it be very, very fun and non-repetitive because there’s so many ways to go about it. For example, you could stand off against the enemy, use ranged weapons, be completely stealthy, use the ghost weapons or use all of the above simultaneously. The one thing that I didn’t really like about this game is that the final battle against Khotun Kahn wasn’t a duel scenario. The fact that it was just like normal playing made it seem less impactful as the penultimate important fight. This character that has been an portrayed numerous times to be a ruthless warlord who will stop at nothing to achieve his goal is suddenly a relatively easy fight (normal difficulty) and I think they could’ve made his duel move set more punishing and complex. Back to positivity, the ending was incredible, the duel with Lord Shimura was a surprise for me, but a welcome one. It once again showed the lengths that samurai would go to maintain their honour. I let Shimura live as I just couldn’t bring myself to kill him, even if it was the more emotionally powerful ending. Last, I’d like to say a few words about the ‘fashion’ this game. I believe that the vanity in ghost of Tsushima is impeccable. It is incredible. There is an extraordinary range of varying headbands, straw hats, kabuto and some that guard such as the tengai. Moreover, the choice of colour and mask was very nice as many of them represented something different, personally, I wore the ghost set through the rest of the game after I got it because it looks amazing and because it came from Taka and that was enough to make me wear it.
This game. I know it has some faults the japanese dub sometimes has bad lip syncing and the stealth is a bit 2 easy because of stupid AI. But the story , the characters , the atmosphere. You feel like a samurai in this game. The open world is rich with content and ABSOLUTELY gorgous. One of the best games I have played from a sony first party studio. For me it is exactly what I wanted from a samurai open world game so it deserves a 10/10.
The game is a pure masterpiece. It combines the best of the current generation, a quest system from Witcher 3, a rich combat system from God of War, a story when the main character reconsiders his values like in RDR 2 and a cool authentic setting like in Horizon Zero Dawn. Definitely must play and one of the best Sony's games!!!
With this being the PS4's final exclusive, Ghost of Tsushima delivers a great story about honor alongside great combat and stealth gameplay. The story takes place during the Mongol invasion of Tsushima island, with protagonist Jin Sakai being a survivor of the brutal attack on his home after failing to defend it with his samurai army. Jin's uncle Shimura is captured by the enemy while Jin is rescued by a thief, Yuna, who helps him recover. After initially failing to rescue Shimura, Jin decides to work with Yuna and recruits allies to aid in rescuing his uncle and drive the Mongol army away, all the while performing dishonorable actions that go against the samurai code (i.e. killing Mongols through stealth than through normal sword fighting). The plot deals heavily with the themes of honor and dishonor and is shown through the evolution of Jin's character. He initially is reluctant to assassinate enemies from the shadows, but over time, he becomes more accustomed to these new methods that many would deem shameful. He eventually decides to do whatever it takes to win back Tsushima and sees that honor and the samurai teachings won't be that helpful to him if it means that lives can't be saved at the end of the day. This transformation into his Ghost persona is done well and affects his relationship with his uncle, who disapproves of what Jin becomes. Their relationship is shown in flashbacks where we see how much they care for each other, with their present day relationship slowly deteriorating and souring in between these moments of the past. The ending of their relationship also coincides with the ending of the story, showing how drastic the change to their relationship has been and how they view honor, with both ending on a very bittersweet note. The game is also remarkably dark and that is displayed through the Mongols. Their leader is easily hateable and performs truly despicable acts in order gain the upper hand in the war. It was a joy to see what happens to him by the game's end and will satisfy players who loathe him. His underlings also do some horrific things to the island's inhabitants. You will regularly see many corpses courtesy of the invaders, who butcher others like animals. They also force villagers to work for them if they wish to live and will take hostages at outposts across the island. They are usually responsible for the deaths, mutilation, (implied) rape, child abuse and killings, torture of many of Tsushima's inhabitants. Their atrocities are on full display here and it cements them as terrifying force that must be annihilated. The game's side quests also show how bleak the game's tone is. Not all of them will result in happy endings for the quest givers and usually result in innocents being slain, with their loved one having to cope with their passing. One of the only times I laughed during gameplay was during a quest given by Kenji, a character who lies to you in order for you to help him get out of the problems he usually creates. Even he is sad at the passing of a character during the second act. This game is brutal and serious with what it shows and it is wholly unapologetic for it. Gameplay is divided into two types: normal combat and stealth. Normal combat has you slashing Mongols with a katana while blocking and dodging any incoming attacks. Stealth sees you creeping about and hiding in tall grass and on rooftops, killing Mongols when they aren't looking. Both gameplay styles allow you to use Ghost tools such as kunal and bombs to turn the tide of battle in your favor. You also have windchimes to lure enemies away while in stealth and two different types of bows to use for long range kills. Your abilities can be upgraded by increasing your legend, which will reward you technique points when your legend meter is filled to a certain point. Filling this meter completely will reset it and allow you to learn one of the aforementioned Ghost weapon techniques. Technique points help you learn skills for combat, stealth and in finding collectibles across the island. These collectibles include fox shrines, bamboo strikes, hot springs, haikus, etc. Further improvements can be done by acquiring and upgrading your armor and weapons. Equipping different armors gives you different benefits like increased health, enemies not hearing you run, enemies taking longer to detect you, etc. Improving armors can improve these benefitsand is done by collecting resources like linen, steel, iron, silk. etc. alongside resources (money). The same can be said for upgrading weapons. Upgrading your tanto lets you assassinate Mongols faster, upgrading your katana lets yo do more damage with it and upgrading both bows improves their reload speed, stability, etc. You can also improve your ammo pouches for weapons by killing predator animals and taking their hides. In the end, this game is mostly great to play, though it is mired by its collectibles which are not exciting or fun to collect.
It is a very good game. You have to spend a lot of time playing in order to do every mission with a compelling story. Play system that is extremely smart every battle
My only criticism of the game is that the side missions at the end are a tiny bit repetitive and wouldn't mind having a new game plus feature. A Must play if you have a PlayStation.
Perfect game that's immersed me inside it, I spend a lot of time in this game with feeling any of boring. The word "Perfect" is too much less to describe this amazing beautiful genius Game. If there some justice in this world, Ghost of Tsushima ❤️ will win Game of the Year without any argument
To be able to experience the life and struggles of Jin Sakai has been one the best experience I ever had. It may be true that there are some aspects of the game that may have been done better. To name a few there is the lip sync for the Japanese dub, the Stealth Detection AI for the enemies and a few historical discrepancies such as using katana instead of the tachi and the patterns of the samurai armor during the 1200's (this is for those who are into the historical aspect of the game). However, these are definitely minute compared to the compelling story and very relatable characters the game has to offer to players. From the exhilarating fight sequences to the breathtaking scenes, Ghost of Tsushima delivers a familiar vibe of a beloved theme in a very refreshing light. For me, to call Ghost of Tsushima "amazing" is an understatement. I would consider this a masterpiece. Thank you and congratulations Sucker Punch Productions!

Great gameplay great story and a good side missions and a very very beautiful game it’s one of the beautiful games I’ve ever played in my life and the gameplay is perfect .this is one of the best games I’ve ever played on the PS4.
This game is a absolute masterpiece, i was excited for Ghost of Tsushima to be released but i didn't realise it was going to be one of the best gaming experiences of my life. Im typically not a fan of open world games as i feel the formula can get stale after a while, but this game just doesn't have any of that. The game stars out a little weak story wise but only gets better as it goes on, and by the end i cared for all the characters, not in the strongest way, but i had fear for what was. going to happen to Jin
Ghost of Tsushima is a great game. The gameplay is fun, whether you're playing as an honourable samurai, or a sneaky assassin. As a samurai you can challenge enemies to duels and kill them in one hit. As an assassin you can use tools to lure and kill enemies, even terrify them and make them run away screaming. Unfortunately it's brought down by the fact that it is an open world and has a lot of busy work. It's not as bad as other open world games as the side activities are fun, but it can feel like there's too much to do at times. Also story is for the most part just fine. It's not anything special and the best parts don't come until much later in the game. Overall it's a great game. If you want a fun samurai game to play then I would highly recommend this.

This game succeeds in creating an epic experience while still keeping the game light and fun to play. It is truly intoxicating in the same way you would play “just one more round” in Civilization.

Completed the story 5 min ago. Damn, Sucker Punch, you really impressed me. This is the most beautiful game I ever played. Visual is stunning, story is simple and amazing, fighting is impeccable. Damn, I didn't expect it to be that good. 10/10. Masterpiece! Thank you, Sucker Punch. And thank you Sony, for supporting projects like this.
I have never stopped mid walk in a game so many times just to look at how gorgeous the scenery is. The beauty isn't just in the way the game looks but the stories they tell and the game play itself, they even let you take pictures, its amazing in every way.
They paid a lot of attention to accuracy. The environment is huge is beautiful. All armor is as detailed as can be for PS4. If you want a deep story you can cling onto, its a perfect play.
This game has honestly became my favorite game, the gameplay is so satisfying, the story is really good and you truly feel like you are in ancient japan. I’ve been waiting for a samurai game like this one, having played both nio games and sekiro I personally think this is the best choice if you want to pick up a samurai game. Yes the game does have a few bugs but tbh what game doesn’t. I don’t even have a ps4 pro and the game still looks GORGEOUS. The game, even tho being on the easier side, still offers a descent challenge. You care about the characters you fight with, you always want to do more and I really like how (personally) you want to finish the character side quests because you care about they’re story as much as the main one. This is a 10/10 for me
what a game dood... everything about it is perfect except for the camera and yeah lol btw if u look at negative reviews most of the times its people rating only 2 games and the other one is tlou2 and they give that a big rating and this low lmao salty fanboys
It is a 10. The story is slow but the characters little by little they start to show their colors, there is a good narrative, some side quests are sad and other even funny, but maintain you interested and give more background to the island. The graphics are the limit of the generation, pushing all limits of the PS4 pro. And the gameplay could be better but it is fun to play and easy to conquer.
Best game of the generation until now! The game deserves a lot more Tha 8.3 MC, at least a 9.3.
Ghost of Tsushima Is one of the most breathtaking and beautiful game I've ever played. It provides us with a massive world to explore with an amazing combat system. According to the choice of actions u take in the game u can either be a stealthy ninja or a badass samurai. There are a few bugs here and there but they don't end up ruining the experience.

Finished the main story/game yesterday, I even manage to get the platinum trophy, and I still can’t put down the game yet. Amazing, amazing writing. Congrats to sucker punch prod. There’s a few minor bugs here and there, but I hadn’t encounter anything gamebreaking.


Definetely Ghost of Tsushima is the perfect example of how you can manage to keep the hype whilst delivering what was promised. Feudal Japan has never looked so amazing, and for all of the Samurai/Shinobi fans out there who hve been awaiting a game like this, with this type of setting, Sucker Punc could not have delivered anything more good than this. This game is so beautiful, captivating, brutal, bloody, balanced, and inspiring, that you will not realize many hours have gone into the game because nothing feels trivial on it. You can set out te pace you want and do what you want in your own "timely manner" approach. PLEASE, DO NOT EXPECT ME TO COMPARE THIS GAME WITH OTHER GAMES...WHICH MANY HAVE ALREADY DONE... THIS IS A UNIQUE EXPERIENCE ON ITS OWN. SETTING For a Samurai/Shinobi fan like me, the Kamakura period never looked so good. The story is based on actual history: The Mongol invasion of Japan that started in the late 13th century, in which the ruthless nomadic Mongol empire wished to expand its frontiers beyond. you are a surviving Samurai of the battle that took in Komoda beach in the year 1274... you need to gather allies and exact you revenge, forsaking your Bushido code, becoming something darker, so the mongols can fear you... you will become the Shinobi known as The Ghost (Kurodo, in Japanese) MECHANICS This game has several mechanics on its gameplay, which work perfect for me. take a look: * Exploration: No guided points, no HUD elements, just pure observation to move fto wherever you want to go. You see that hill overthere with a single Bonsai like tree? mno problem, go there. you see that fume of black smoke rising out in the horizon? yeah, go there... And you use the wind as your compass... this is organic exploration and I have read people "complaining" about "spending" too much time going from one place to another... this is 1274, you need to use your senses: when investigating a murder, gathering clues, or tailing bandits... AMAZING! * Combat: Oh boy, they got it right... Mud, blood, Sweat, and Steel! and well said, as I have never played such an addictive combat gampleya which hooked me in so much... enemies are vicious, ruthless and they will swarm you if you are not careful. Forget about lock on, its all about circling around, parrying, blocking, strafing, and undesrstanding the enemies' movements to find an open opportunity to strike with your Katana... get too trigger cocky and the baddies will come up and cut you down with an unblockable attack, or a dvious foe will slash you from behind... you cannot stay still, you need to move constantly around... Jin's animations are amazing, the combat moves smoothly and it seems that combatants are "dancing" raher than clashing swords, but you will never feel it is coreographed. I cannot get enough of this battle system, and I know udnerstand why sucker Punch programemrs iterated this over and over... this is the most amazing battle system I have ever played! *Stealth some will say is borig, dull, or that it does not bring anything new... They do not know what they are talking about. Thee is only one way to do stealth without being too painful for players... enemies have a detect radar which will raise if they spot you... stay in the open too much time and the radar will turn to yellow, forcing the enemie to go and do a search for anything suspicious... if you do not conceal wuickly enough, the marker will turn red and the enemie will attack you. This system is perfect because it allows you fr a more tactical approach when you want to go sneaky... the trial and mistake approach is not painful, and that makes it perfect... be ware, the awareness' radar on the enemies fill quickly, but it never felt so punishing as to not going Shinobi. Upgrade your Tanto blade and your bows and you will be a powerhouse of stealthness. It will depend on your approch, but doing air asassinations, chainng stalth kills, or bombing a group of enemies never felt so good... do not hear to people comparing this to any other game... the stealth system is amazing, and I really felt like a Shinobi... if i screwed up the I had to rely on my Samurai skills... the balance of stealth and combat is priceless. VISUALS Oh my... This s the best looking game of Playstation 4. Period. You will be amazed at the graphics in this game... ofthe found mysel playing my flute and just taking a look at the batiful landscape... the lushing rivers, the wind touching gently the grass... such an amazing detail to honor the beauty of the Japnese culture in all its splendor... I even open Shoji doors carefully in eenemie camps not to disrupt the beautful balance of this raw perfect world. 5000 thousand words and I still hve so many to say about this game!!! go to youtube nd watch me play: Ghost of Tsushima Ruben Barco Thank you Sucker Punch!
Ghost of Tsushima is fun has "easy" combat that is easy to learn but not to hard to master but it is not in eny way revolutionary. the ability to switch between forms in combat to better fight certain types of enemy's is do well. it looks stunning and is gud at making you feel like a bad-ass. the game runs pretty well. i haven't had eny problems with glitches myself but i hear they are there. i will say this is a must try but i can see it isn't fore everyone. it is a gud game but no masterpiece
Ah sucker punch you did it again, after infamous Second Son sucker punch makes another amazing game, Ghost Of Tsushima is ART, the graphics are beautiful, the combat system feels smooth and its fun, the main story is good and the side quests show some deep stories and life lessons and lastly the characters have personality and they are kinda interesting, for me this game is game of the year best game of 2020 and my top game of PS4 generation together with infamous Second son, God Of War and Horizon Zero Dawn.

This is everything I wanted in a game. samurai, Japanese lore, history, rpg, open world. The combat is fun, the world is beautiful. The side quests are so interesting I find myself genuinely attached to the characters. I'm so invested in the side stories I often forget about the main story for hours at a time. I couldn't recommend this more.
Pure serenity and beauty, there is so much of it to discover in this world. Suckerpunch commits to the feudal Japan setting and the experience of stepping into the shoes of a samurai and **** nails it. The combat is excellent and nuanced with incredible animation and fantastic audio. The characters you meet are for the most part interesting in subtle ways, and the stories you live through will often not go the way you expect, in a good way. Jin makes a compelling protagonist with his commitment to honor and justice, although on his journey he might challenge those values in some interesting ways. From an audio/visual angle the game is simply stunning, every hilltop, grasslands and plains of white flowers are just jaw dropping. The audio matches the visuals with an incredible attention to detail with the ambient audio in particular. The sounds of a katana slicing though flesh and bone are likely to never get old. All in all this might be the best game I’ve played this year, so far, if you own a PS4, it’s up there with God of War and Uncharted 4 on the list of must-plays. Give it a go, you won’t regret it.
This game's art direction, music, and combat are all off the chain. Very high quality, it's like assassin's creed, if assassin's creed was a high quality game. Almost every aspect of this game is extremely polished and well done. Very detailed. Very fun to play. Combat makes you feel like a badass
This game has it all while not feeling overdone It's fun all the way through. The dumbest down the graphics all in the right spots so that loading screens are short. Really short!!! So much to do in this beautiful world. I mean beautiful.
The most amazing experience I've had with a video game since Spiderman. I can kill mongols all day. Hell, even collecting cosmetic items is fun and addicting.
Holy this game is just beautiful, artistic, the quality in Story Telling is astounding. i would gave this game 11 out of 10 if the camera would be better, Thats litteraly, the only problem this game has. But still the combat is awesome, you'll feel it. Its Realistic how much damage you deal to Enemies. its close to no Hud and their replacement solutions are genius. Who needs a waypoint on a map when the Wind guides you to your destination.

As someone with Samurai in their blood this game felt like the perfect experience. It manages to be a superb vast open world while cutting out unnecessary travel traps a lot of open world games get stuck in. It's honestly one of the most refreshing experiences I've had in a while. It's a gaming moment that solidifies the complete takeover video games are having as the only relevant medium. Thank you everyone involved in this game!

A wonderful game and a must play for every samurai addict! Very artistic, it successfully combines elements from The witcher 3 and Assassin's creed odyssey but with a strong identity and a lot of complex ideas, clearly surpassing the assassin's creed series. Don't miss it!

The most beautiful game i have ever seen. Great gameplay, great story, authenticity and great skill/progression. The only weak spot i find - a little bit generic quests. But overall great game - worth of buying.
Phenomenal game! Deep and intense combat, with exploration that is slow (not boring, but a nice counterpoint to the frenetic combat), beautiful, and consistently intriguing.
Sucker Punch knocked it out of the park with this game! It is a moving painting at all times. Any given moment you can stop and get lost at looking and listening to the insanely realized feudal Japan. I never use Photo Mode in games, but I couldn't help myself in this game. It isn't all roses though. There are some short comings. These are my personal short comings, so don't get your panties in a twist. 1. Climbing animations are weird and janky. I find this so strange with their history of platforming and Uncharted like platforming in prior games. 2. Deer scream like two year olds EVERY time you startle them. By the end of the game that noise will make you tremble and cringe. 3. I really really dislike the forced stealth sections. I mean completely stealth no killing in a story mission. Just really brings the pace to a grind. 4. Resources are too abundant. I was maxed out shortly after the start of Act 2. Sword completely upgraded, all available armor up to that point and all items bought from the Merchant. Playing on Hard. Mind you, I did not have all upgrades to my techniques and all, but the upgrades that cost supplies and predator skins, yeah maxed out by Act 2. 5. Game is too easy. Once you figure out the enemies and upgrade your ghost weapons enough and have more stances, it is way too easy. 6. It does fall a little too much on those track footsteps type missions. They started to get long in the tooth by the end. Thank god the writing on the side missions was typically good. 7. I am shocked by the amount of clipping in a Triple A game. The Travelers Armor cape clips with your sword and arms and legs and it looks really bad most of the time. Your feet clip through inclines in the terrain. That might sound like an awful lot, but in reality, in a 40 to 50 hour game, those are really nit picks in an otherwise fantastic game. The 3D audio with a good pair of headphones or sound system is amazing. Hearing the leaves, the wind, the crackling of wood, distant thunder and wind chimes all comes together spectacularly. Now through in an amazing soundtrack, good voice acting on all languages, great story and picture perfect scenery and graphics and you got yourself a masterpiece. Sony really saved this Gem of a game for last and I am glad I got to experience it. My total playtime was somewhere around 40 hours. I say this because there is no way to track your game play, but I tried to play in chunks so I could track it. I am a do everything in one area before moving on type of player. I got the Plat Trophy as well. I didn't have much to do after beating the game, but you could leave most if not all side missions to the end, but they are fun and go with the story and you get some great rewards for doing them during the main campaign. Fully recommend at full price or on sale. Get this game!
The game could be perfect, but unfortunately you realize that the developers probably didn't have enough time left. I think that the developers would have needed at least another year. It is a great game! I love it and I really had a lot of fun. But it is not perfect. But first to the positive things! A beautiful game world. Scope of the game is fine. The sound is great. The combat system is super(rarely there are strange bugs here and there in the combat) Jin's development is interesting. The side quests are short and that's fine (I hate long side quests! You can tell good stories in short quests. And here the developers succeeded). Neutral... The story was good, but unfortunately I am missing something here. You level extremely fast (if you finish area no.1, you're actually quite good at it. An average player won't do that, but Open World fans are fast there). The opponent AI is sometimes stupid. Negative... The controls are sometimes annoying and I slip on edges. Sometimes the hitbox fails and it gets bigger(nice bug). My horse likes to run through the fire haha(that's rather funny :D); but the horse doesn't always come to you. I actually had to wait 2 minutes(!!!)... In this game there are only 10 NPC models(maybe there are more, but somehow they all look the same. In a 2020-game I expect something different). Hardly any diversified side quests. NPC animations are not nice. Story/Atmosphere 8 Game World/Sound 10 Gameplay 9 Playtime/scope 10 Fun factor 9 Game: 9.2 / 10
Ghost os tsushima e um misturadão de tudo que gostamos dessa geração , tem alguns pequenos problemas com bugs mais nada em cima que atrapalhe a gameplay. Cada cenário nesse jogo e unico e lindo chegar a brilhar os olhos de tao bonito o game esta . As btalhas sao incríveis . Amei esse jogo
Beautiful game. Pet a fox simulator 2020. (You finally learn what the fox says). Jokes aside, Sucker Punch got the feel down. A few pacing issues aside in the middle, the atmosphere is perfect. Looking forward to a sequel or another game like this one in the future. (Thinking South American tribes pre-European discover)
Hands down the nest game ever made sucker punch made the bets game of all time the story characters and visuals are the best ever made kudos sucker punch

Великолепная игра. Настолько неожиданно интересный проект вышел. Казалось, после TLOU2, игры не смогут настолько увлекать. Но нет. Каждый день хотелось всё свободное время провести в этой игре. Хотелось узнать все истории, пройти все дополнительные задания, убить каждого врага. И наконец, завершить историю. Потрясающая атмосфера. Увлекательный геймплей. Незабываемый сюжет. Лично моё мнение. Игра супер. Надеюсь на игры такого же плана от Sucker Punch.
From the gorgeous art style, addictive gameplay, brilliant mission structure and world design to the excellent combat, Sucker Punch have delivered my GOTY for 2020 and possibly my favourite game this generation. What a great game. For a brand new IP I can't wait to see this franchise grow on Ps5.
The open world of this game is something else, it's a higher ground. The game is gorgeous one of the most beatifull of all time. The Characters are very,very carismatic, even the antagonist is a very **** good character. It's a must play game on PS4.
That's a Master piece of a game. Wonderful graphics and the mechanics are excellent. That intro is stunning. And the combat and challenges are fair. That's a game if the year. A master piece.
This game is amazing and super fun to play. From the graphics to the storyline it’s amazing. It’s combat mechanics are great and the ability to use stealth or to fight head on is great.
It's one of the most beautiful games I've ever played . The combat is amazing, visuals are stunning and the story is good enough (not too great but it's good enough). It's safe to say it's one of the best PS4 games of all time.

Best game I played in a while. A very interesting and captivating story and the characters are well made, well integrated in the story. You don't feel like those characters are simply put there. Everything has a logic and a place in the story.
Excellently crafted game. Graphics are wonderful and story is rich with a lot of Side Quests to do. Exploring the Island of Tsuschima is something amazing. I definitely recommend to anyone. This game is Fantastic


Definitely one of my favorite games I've played in all of my gaming experience so far, while the game borrows ideas and mechanics from other games the combination is breathtakingly good. I've played around 36ish hours and i have loved every second of it which is something that I have very rarely experienced. The game is so good that I can't get enough of it. I wholeheartedly recommend this game to anyone reading this
Genuinely my favourite game of all time. Sucker punch blew it out of the park. Beautiful graphics, art style, amazing combat and a great storyline. I cant wait for GoT 2 when the mongols invade tsushima the 2nd time!
El juego no es perfecto a pesar de la puntuación que le pongo, pero más que una opinión crítica es más personal. El juego me fascinó, su ambientación y jugabilidad me hicieron meterme en el personaje intento pensar en que haría el personaje para resolver cada conflicto que se presenta a lo largo del juego.en fin hay demasiado de este juego que me sorprendió y considero que es una buena experiencia para cualquiera que le guste este tipo de temática.
It’s beautiful. The graphics, the gameplay, the story, acting, the characters, acting, soundtrack. This is a better experience than The Last Of Us Part 2.
This game is a masterpiece. Heartfelt, gorgeous, challenging and profound. For any areas in which it may be lacking, it makes it up in others tenfold. Definitely Game of the Year material!
Truly one of the best games I've ever played. I found myself struggling to put down the controller. The only games I enjoyed this much were God of war 4, The Last of Us part one, and the Witcher 3. The story, voice acting, visuals are just all amazing. I really have no complaints with this game. I would give it a 9.5 out of ten.
Amazing game. Very polished, beautiful and amazing in every way. The story, the acting, the music, the action. It feels like every bit of this game made with passion. One of the best game of this generation. Thank you Sucker Punch and Sony for this amazing experience.


The gameplay is solid the fighting mechanics are varied and fluent yet difficult to master but when you do its even more fun the open world has the most interesting side activities ive ever played in a long time and not alot of fetch quest easch misson has an interesting narrative and it will keep you addicted for hours.

As a Japanese culture fan for many years, this piece of art fulfills my dream in every ways. I have been to Japan five times and still feel there is so much more that I can explore. And this game showed me too many breath taking views, spectacular vibe and most importantly, my dream Japan.

A very promising end to the PS4 era. And excellent game. However, if I had to point out one area where it needed to do better, it would be the dialogue delivery in the side quests. Most dialogues were bland and lacked variation. The side quests themselves were very engaging and interesting. But the boring conversation decreased the overall value. The game took a huge turn by the time I reached the end of act two. Loved the experience
Gameplay- Good and yet not challenging on the hardest difficulty once you get the hang of it especially when using the tools and "builds" available to you. It has the common stealth op game mechanic but with a few mistakes during combat you will be punished. Not too many animations especially when it comes to stealth kills and the ai can be derpy at times and can be exploited. But when combat works which it generally does it's extremely satisfying, there's nothing better than perfect parrying an enemy. Graphics- Good not quite LOU2 but a very solid 8/10. The beautiful environment is highlighted by haikus(poems) of the current surroundings. Player customisation is good with different armour pieces giving different effects which lean towards different play styles, along with charms which are earned through missons and exploration which can further the desired effects. The open-world- It isn't filled with life like GTA5 but it's on par with HZD. Buffs come in the forms of bamboo cutting aka button memorising under a set time, hot springs which buff health but also offer insight into your characters thoughts and shrines which are parkour sections to get primary charms. Which fox dens accompanying then which first increase the charm slots available and then eventually buff a minor charm. Story- Satisfying enough and isn't far fetched with evolution and tradition being at odds which each other. Legend missions are a typical do 3-5 things such as clear bases or find select spots with aid to obtain said item. But generally have their own unique spin. Characters- 7 out of 10 cast with a couple characters being unlikeable at points but with the context of their situations it's understandable. Insight is also added about the world through scrolls which tell the story of normal people and what they're going through. Ending- Neatly wraps up Jin's journey. My main tip would be take your time so you don't get burnt out playing. Positives-Fast travel is extremely fast which is a +. The game thrives during duels which feel great, though this may be due to the limited number of duels. Definitely hope a duelling mode is added or at the very least being able to replay duels. Problems- The camera is lacking and button prioritisation(r2) is geared towards picking up loot instead of switchcing combat stances. This only affected my personal experience 5 or so times and never got me killed There's a stand-off glitch where it'll never begin so you have to take massive damage is frustrating but will eventually be fixed. It also has witcher 3 fall damage which is terrible but can be somewhat negated with an early skill which stops fall damage from plausible heights. During the platinum run fox dens were tedious if anything, basically just 30 or so seconds of following a fox to a inari shrine and there's a LOT. Though take this with a grain of salt as completing all the fox dens aren't necessary whatsoever.
Wonderful gameplay, simple and deep at the same time, gorgeous ambientations and musics, really reminds me about japan. Smooth and clean storyline, interesting and not heavy, really like (hate) the antagonist. Deep and huge map with alot of collectibles
Lovely game !!! So glad I saved my money for this and skipped tlou2 but hey let's talk about this game. Set in ancient japan this game really takes my favorite setting to new levels. I am a gintama fan and naturally a big fan of samurais. I love how they follow their code but this time sakai gin has to bend his rules for the greater good !!! Do play it highly recommended!!!
Amazing to see what Sucker Punch has achieved going from Infamous Series to Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks gorgeous. My biggest take is the absence of HUD, so you get to immerse yourself in the environment as the wind is used to guide you to your next location.
Paisajes increíbles,una historia muy interesante y una jugabilidad buena,en veces puede ser un poco repetitiva y muy buena cantidad de contenido(coleccionables,misiones secundarias).
Sony killing it again right before the next gen. Best game I've played since God of War, it captured my attention and it's the first game I've completed in a while. Can't reccomend enough pick it up now.
I was a PC and Xbox player, then I saw the first trailer of Ghost of Tsushima. I immediately switched to PS4, played it's exclusives. Years had passed and finally, the game is out. Went to the mall and wait in line for me to finally buy it, went home and immediately played it. And now I'm enjoying every bit of it, probably one reason is the Tenchu. Was addicted of that game then it disappeared and I became busy and had responsibilities. Now I'm playing this game slowly with joy on every seconds. Thanks SP.


Невероятно красивая и крепко сбитая адвенчура в сеттинге средневековой Японии. Не без недостатков, но на фоне TLOU2 10/10, иначе - никак! Очень рекомендую!
I signed up to Metacritic just to rate this game the 10 it deserves. It has been a very long time for me (years) since I have been wowed by a game this much, it truly is something different. The graphics, the sound, the gameplay - it's just next level. Sucker Punch did an amazing job on this. Well done guys.
Ghost Of Tsushima is amazing, finaly a samurai game where you can feel like a baddass, a sort of call of duty with boots on the ground, no sci fi ninja's or any of that fuzz, a real boot to the ground japanese samurai duking it out with combat and honor, lets gets a sequel going :)
Masterpiece of a game that revolutionized the combat system in a way I’ve never seen before and the VisiCalc are some of the best in the genre!
Estamos ante el mejor juego de samurais de la historia. Empieza un poco flojo pero a medida que te adentras en el juego y vas explorando,haciendo misiones y desplazarte por el mapa se te han pasado las horas volando. La historia es sencilla pero entretenida y a lo mas puro codigo del samurai, el combate super placentero y sencillo a medida que te vas haciendo con el, cuando jugamos con lo rama de habilidades de fantasma pues tienes lo tipico hay es algo no negativo pero a tener en cuenta que se podia haber mejorado. El modo de guia de este mismo es dejate guiar por el viento que te lleve guiate por el mismo eso es un detalle de los mejores para mi parecer. Los escenarios son bellesimos que te dejaran boquiabiertos, los duelos son increibles junto a su banda sonora quedan de pelicula. Imprescindible para el que tenga una PS4. 10/10
This is a truly wondrous game. The visuals, the gameplay, the story! Oh my goodness. I just cannot get over how marvelous this game is. Probably one of the best games in existence
Uno dei migliori open world al quale abbia giocato. Ambientazioni bellissime e poetiche, una bella storia e una strepitosa colonna sonora. Decisamente superiore a tanti open world usciti negli ultimi anni.

Quite possibly the best game to release in the last year. Combat is extremely fun. The world building is absolutely incredible. Few games will have me simply wasting time and enjoying the scenery. Massive innovations to the open world format, no longer chasing the HUD or compass, you follow environmental queues instead, adding to the immersion. The progression system means you can unlock most of your skills and moves within the first act, which makes you feel a bit overpowered, but this opens the door to more difficult and engaging combat in the next two acts. The game encourages learning in act one, and mastery in the next two acts. The story is great, but I have not yet finished the main quest, so perhaps it will collapse. I do doubt this considering the conversations I've had with friends and colleagues. Great work sucker punch. This is a great example of how to make a game for your audience, not the press core.


One of the best games on PS4. I love this game. Thanks for it. Cool graphic and story as well. Recommend to everyone.
This game is good. When you look in the open world you going to love. This game is like art. Combat and fighting is very good. However I like story but not perfect. I love final scene. Good things 1)New things in this game. 2)Atmosphere is very wonderfull. 3)Fighting was amazing.. 4)Epic stories is very good . 5)Alot of clothes and hats so you can choose what you like . 6) Final was very good . 7)There is option Turkish language as subtitle. Bad things 1)Main story is short and normal so if you watch anime you will know what will gonna happen when you play . 2) Side missions poor but not bad whatever when finish 30 missions later you can gonna bored.

Ghost of Tsushima has renewed my faith in video games. The richness of the story combined with the environment presented creates a sense of immersion that I have not yet experienced from playing a video game. Ghost of Tsushima has made me genuinely interested in the historical and cultural uniqueness of the island of Tsushima, a place I didn’t know existed. The characters are brought to life in such a way that increases my own self awareness in regards to respect and honor. The gameplay is solid and is actually fun to learn and progress through. I’m almost finished with the main story and a little ways to go for exploration and collection. I thank Sucker Punch for making this masterpiece and I look forward to their future projects.
What an amazing game, truly one of the very best games I have played in many years. The world of Tsushima is a beautiful island to explore and there is always something to do. Sucker Punch did an amazing job overall, the story, the characters, the combat system, the music, and so on are just pure gold in my opinion. When playing the game as Jin, really feel like a samurai and the way you are slicing your katana through the enemies feels real. Another that Sucker Punch managed to do really well was by creating this historical event of the first Mongol invasion of Japan in 1274. By playing the game, we actually learn how the invasion took place in some sort of way and how the samurais defended their island. There is just so many amazing features and details in this game of the best of its kind. In my opinion, this game deserves Game of the Year 2020, that's how perfect this game is.


Thia game is open world done right... I have never found myself desperately trying to explore the entire map and find new location before completing the story of the game... The visuals are just breathtaking, sukerpunch has done a fantastic job in portraying ancient Japan... The combat of the game is very fun and you never get bored of it... As you progress you unlock new moves and fighting styles keeping the combat fresh throughout the game.

Incredible game. Unbelievable gameplay mixed with stunning graphics make this one of the best games ever! If you only play one game in your life,make it this!
Tuyrtihftuihfuiouregioyruot585edhitehiyru9yefhuuùuuuuuuuuuuuuuteirfj8rhotej9
Combat mechanics, grafx visual art design, score... is top of the notch. I just dislike the story which follows a lil bit the hollywood bad vs good scheme. Another point is the difficulty level. Speaking for myself, it s a lil too easy.
Very ambitious game from Sucker punch the developers of Infamous and sly games , Ghost of Tsushima takes off slow through the story but it gets interesting and better each time as you continue the story , the world is so beautiful filled with a lot of activities to enjoy , the wind system rlly makes the game special and refreshing , there’s no need to open the map every time , highly recommend the game
Excellent game ! Sucker punch makes an incredible and amazing open world game in Tsushima. The scenery feels living and not stationary, the landscape is wonderful and color, it's one the best game for take picture mode. The sword fight system is ambitious and the movement and animation fight are splendid, I feel like to play as a real samurai . The customisation for katana, bow, armor, hat, mask are varied and can change the color too, i like design of the ghost armor and sakai armor. The story is more intelligient and more emotional than TLOU2, in this game I understand the meaning of way of the samurai and their tradition . As a fan of Japan and Japanese culture I recommend this game, it's gem!

What a game, what a journey. Ghost of Tsushima brings to every player a long missed feeling from achieving a game with a brillant story not something twisted but something logical and undoubtedly sensfull. The game isn't far from being flawless, but the gameplay can be sometimes repetitive but in every fight, every confrontation you try to perfect you're skills to live up to the legend of the ghost of tsushima defender of the land of tsushima. Both the story and the side stories bring more depth to the character you're incarnating, by expanding his inner conflict between saving his honour as a samurai and for the name of his clan or losing everything to save as many people as he can. The music and the atmosphere are something else, you get to live every second of the game enjoying every bit of your exploration and battles, taking the time to see what sucker punch offered us the players to say our goodbyes to the PS4. some may say the mechanics of the game aren't as realistic as what rdr 2 or tlou part 2 gave us, but i can't personally see ghost of tsushima with that kind of slow mechanics like grabbing flowers, cutting bamboos, etc... To everyone that haven't bought the game yet, go get it. And huge thanks to sony for giving the freedom to developers for creating different world and journey for us to live.


Most beautiful game I’ve ever played. Great combat, short load times, a horse that actually does what you want it to, great characters, great story. Blends the best part of open world games together flawlessly. Masterpiece.

Just unlocked the platinum trophy. Although i think the game is deserving of a 10 out of 10 mark, the game is certainly not perfect. During my playthrough i encountered a couple of buggy/glitchy moments. Minor stuff concerning AI and textures popping through walls. What motivates me to give this game a 10 is the enjoyment that Sucker Punch has managed to deliver. From the very first minute to the moment i unlocked the final trophy, all i wanted to do was play this game. There are few games that really manage to grab me by the balls like this game has. If your game is as much fun to play as this one is than in my book that's as perpect as it gets.
I love the combat, style, music, atmosphere, side activities, tales, duels, characters etc. I have fun doing stealth, samurai combat and duels. There is problem with camera (sometimes I lose combat because of it) but it doesn’t ruin the fun. Most of the times it works. All the small details in this game are well crafted. I care mostly about the small details. It’s great fun!
Don't understand how so called professional gaming journalist can score this game below 80 and all the losers trying to say this game is disrespectful to either Chinese or Japanese are absolutely retarded. Game is miles better than the Last of Us 2 and holds it own against recent Sony games like God of War and Horizon Zero Dawn.
I got this game because of all the hype, didn't really care about it much. I thought this will be another game like assassin creed stuff. I was wrong. This game is on a different level. The art in this game is amazing. The combat makes me feel like a samurai/ninja if i go stealth. The only think i hate so far is the japanese dub lip sync. It is horrible at time, but my character wear mask now, so I can't see it, so its not too bad now.
A beautiful open world in the style of ancient japan. Simple but very interesting combat system and skill leveling system. Many interesting side quests. Strong plot. P.S. русская озвучка и перевод шикарны !
I played on the normal PS4 and the graphics of scenarios and characters are wonderful. Most impressive is the very short load time of fast travels. You don't have a heavy conscience to do a fast travel and think it will take a long time to load. It's really fast. This was a strong effort to optimize the Sucker Punch team. I look forward to seeing the adaptation that the game can undergo for the next generation. The game has no mini map even though it is an open world game. This decision helps to remove 100% of the texts from the screen, further increasing the immersion. Speaking of immersion, always play with headphones. The sound effects of the game are very well done. I played in Portuguese to avoid subtitles and increase immersion even more. The voice work and voices of all the characters, main and secondary, are very well done. There is only no lip synchrony for Portuguese. Ghost of Tsushima is a game to close the current generation of PS4 with a SUCCESS!!!.
This game is a 9.5 /10.. (Small hickups like the ladders, character not jumping down a ledge when you want to and such..) but really this game was an amazing surprise for me. It felt so immersive; I wanted to RP as a samourai all game long. The atmosphere and environment is one the best this generation has to offer. Made me want to use the photo mode for the first time in a game (and abused the hell out of it). Main character is okay, but side characters are much better. Playing in original Japanese voice is the way to go. Lots of customization and the game really lets you play like you want to. Made me want to 100% the map (minus artifacts) for a 55+ hours. Really amazingly well done.
Lo mejor que he jugado últimamente. La historia, los gráficos y la ambientación son sencillamente, impresionantes. Un Triple A en toda regla. Muy recomendado.
Bellissimo, artisticamente sublime, il Giappone feudale è riprodotto in maniera assolutamente certosina. Consigliato a tutti, soprattutto a coloro amanti della cultura giapponese.
No where close to completing the game yet but what I have played so far has exceeded my expectations. Actually playing on the tv instead of just seeing gameplay on YouTube really shows how beautiful the graphics and audio are. Combat is a lot better than recent RPGs I’ve played. Story isn’t too complicated and nothing wrong with that. Any story that has to do with honor and being a man is something I will always look into even if I am a woman.

The best open world game with a beutiful of japan and great story as well. This the best game so enjoy and not so hard to play. Well done sucker punch. Love the game.
10/10 and best open-world game on PS4 by long shot, maybe best open-world game ever. Great story, funny, beautiful and authentic. In 5 years time, we will look back and think how a miracle it was that this runs on PS4 the way it runs. Sequel in feudal Japan pleaseeee
In a stacked year for gaming like 2020, there's been very little room for error in new titles. Fortunately, Ghost of Tsushima has been nothing short of outstanding for me. The world is gorgeous and interacts with the weather and the wind beautifully. Combat is engaging and allows for numerous styles of play. Exploration is rewarding and fun. The story is, admittedly, pretty straightforward but its presentation is fantastic. There are so many reasons why I love this game. It reminds me a lot of the old Assassins Creed games.
Finished it in 3 days sacrificed sleep,it's been so long since iv'e sacrificed sleep for a good game.If we have more last of us 2's I will play this game and Cyberpunk2077 for the rest of my life.
For years, audiences have been asking Ubisoft to bring Assassin’s Creed back to feudal Japan, but the French publisher has ignored the appeal. Well, the Sucker Punch team has taken the initiative - here's a samurai open-world game inspired by Kurosawa's films. And this game turned out to be very good
Um dos melhores combates já feito, perde apenas para sekiro, gráficos perfeitos, não tive problemas com bugs. História simples mas cativante, prende você. Missões bem variadas e divertidas. Mais um jogo para ficar na história. parabens

This game had me appreciating both samurai (Japanese) and Mongolian side of the story as a big fan of both this game really is great combat is where this game shines the most while not a big fan of open world game structures this game did it right very satisfying....but what are you doing reading this go get the game you wont regret it.

Despite some flaws later on with the some story narrative. Ghost of Tsushima is one of the recommend exclusives that deserve to get praise not only because of the Japan concept, but also for the well made exploration mix with amazing combat and not mention how good the progression through out from beginning to the end. Story wise it is nothing new. But instead of story-telling narrative, GOT choose to focus on character story driven. Giving the simple revenge story with a complex and enjoyable character thoughout the journey of Jin. They have weakness as well Help him, and teach him in so many way to become a Ghost and still, live true to his own life. Gameplay wise, despite on "nothing new" on openworld structure, GOT still deliver one of the best openworld til today with many small add-on feature inside some similar features we have seen from other openworld title. From point of interest, enemies camp, hidden location, etc. GOT put their love inside those activities. I could give some example like "POI", in other games you can just go to that place and listen to some audio or read a letter to describe some informations. But in GOT, you can make Haku poem, one of the best way for you to take a break and enjoy the beauty as well as your mind can be at ease by music score in those locations. And you can find much more of those "take a break" moments not just only by those point of interest location. And the thing to make it more distinct, yes (Again), by those beautiful graphic with very careful well crafted locations and strong art-direction. Although, some may not point this one can be a game-changing, but to me, the graphic of GOT for not just only for beauty-eye-candy but also help a lot in game level design to hide some special locations and gameplay. It keeps your interesting mind enough to not let go the controller. I'm glad they learnt and took the inspiration from RDR, Shadow of the Colossus and Zelda BOTW for exploration gameplay. Also instead of climbing tower to unlock maps, this time, defeat enemies on their camp can automatically unlock maps in limit zone. The special about combat mechanic of GOT, is not about stealth, it is about Stand off mechanic moments. It can be repeated many times but it is addictive for sure. There are very few games that has those mini feature but shape a unique feeling like GOT. The dual battle may sound nothing new, but when you into it and experience. It feel totally different than anything you see out there. Many people said GOT feel like Assassin's Creed. But nope, after over 50 hours of playing it, I see it nothing like that. Yep, I am no place to deny it borrow some feature from other openworld. But when combining, with some genious tweak and add-on inside those "similar", surprisingly, it brought to you a whole new experience that so refresh, so well-done and not overwhelming things that will bug you along the way. And one more personal feeling of mine when experience this, just like I felt for HZD. Despite some flaws, HZD and GOT absolutely positive feeling in their openworld. Full of hope in humanity.
Gameplay and graphics are stunning. Specially the compatability with the HDR. And great honor story

This is one of the best games i've played in a long time. Fresh off of TLOU2, I felt a little underwhelmed. I was expecting so much from that game then playing it I had to force myself to finish it. i had this empty pit in my stomach. Checking for something to fill that void I had stumbled on this game. Just released so nothing much to go on. Going into this game blind I had no idea what to be ready for. From the first view of the red banners flowing in the wind I was hooked. All I look forward to after work is coming home and delving deeper into this game's story. In conclusion, all I can say is Thanks, Sucker Punch!
As the Last of Us was the swan song for the PS3, Ghost of Tsushima is the swan song for the PS4. This game delivers a world that engages you on a variety of levels. The music, the controls - stances, etc, and the settings are do an amazing job of making the player feel like a part of Shogun era Japan. The variety of weapons, armor, equipment, and approaches to every situation make the game feel fresh from the first Mongol camp to the last. For a game this large it loads blazingly fast and is only 40gb. On a technical level the controls and the photo mode are great and hopefully set the bar for future uses of the controller and touch pad. I have a few gripes about the game that keep me from giving it a perfect 10 but overall, I absolutely love it and want to dive back in after 40+ hours. My main complaints are the following: - I would love to see a quick change for builds - outfits and charms. This game is the first I can recall that lends to a desire to change equipment constantly as one changes from traveling to sneaking, to full on fights. An ability to change the styles quickly would be great! - When you get close to the end it is possible to have all techniques and still have 1 point remaining. This is more of an annoyance. Maybe one of the skills needed to be 2 points instead of 1 so that when you hit Ghost of Tsushima, not points are left to allocate. - I've seen this a good bit elsewhere but I will say it as well. A New Game plus mode would be fantastic. The ability to replay the whole game fully powered and equipped would make for an excellent experience.
He jugado a este juego más de 30 horas, he hecho casi el 100% de todo el contenido y he aquí mi evaluación: Ghost o Tsushima es un juego que está a la altura de The Witcher 3 y Zelda Breath of the Wild. Es un juego casi perfecto, 100% recomendable y que te enganchará a seguir jugando lo. Con una historia épica y trágica inmersiva. Tiene sus pequeños bugs y fallos, pero es un juego de sobresaliente y lo recomiendo a todo el mundo, misiones muy bien construidas y una bso exquisita. Un 9.5 de nota.
I personally believe it’s a 9 out of 10 Because of the storytelling, the combat system and the beautiful open world. If I could erase one part of my memory it will have to be playing Ghost of Tsushima. I just wanna experience playing the game again for the first time.

One of the most incredible games I have ever played, also one of the most beautiful. I finished the whole story, it was amazing. The only things I found bad about this game (did not make the game any worse) was the camera in combat, and the parkour. Otherwise this is a phenomenal game that I recommend everyone play. I truly felt attached to the character.

This game is soooo big. There is so much to do. You have side quests, main quests, collectibles, etc. The combat is extremely fun and there are times where you genuinely feel like a badass samurai. I enjoyed the story a lot and they had a cool ending to wrap it up. Also the environment was insanely beautiful. There were times where I would just admire the detail of the environment. So yeah there’s not really much negative things to say about the game. I had a great time playing it. It’s one of the few games that made me look forward to being able to play it each day.
Amazing sucker punch have made such a breathtaking and beautiful game. The visuals the details wow this is one amazing looking game just the intro gives you goosebumps. The story is good but the gameplay is amazing the combat is superb once you get the combat down, with combos and using your techniques and tools you feel like the most badass samurai ever cutting down your enemies. Definitely a must play, this game is making the PS4 go out with a bang. Thank you sucker punch!!!
Simply a Masterpiece, does an amazing job game mechanics wise and environment art wise. an interesting story as well, this game has a great potential to get a sequel to it.
Now i am a big fan of Japanese history, mainly the era of the samuria so understand i am a little bias but this is the game i have always wanted to play. It is breathtaking in every way. You have to play it for a while to truley get what it is trying to show you. Don't get me wrong, the start is epic but it just keeps getting better and better. I am in love. Thank you sucker punch. You did it. 10 out of 10
Ghost of Tsushima is the game I've dreamed of. Wandering as a Samurai in Feudal Japan with my horse, helping people and getting stronger. Some people say it doesn't do anything new in the genre, but they couldn't be more wrong. GoT doesn't treat you like an idiot, it expects you to learn how to read to world, where you need to go, how to do something, it's there, in the world. No waypoint or markers, you find your way using the sound and the environment, that alone for me is a game changer. On top of that the game is very non-linear. You can make many many quests in the order you want, that includes main and side quests with a defined storyline. You earn different things for doing different missions. At one time I was struggling with a side quest, so I went to the story and did some missions to earn Stealth and the Bow, when I got back to the side quest I could finish it because I had more tools at my disposal, but it was totally possible to do that in a harder way. The game let's you play it anyway you want it and the best thing of it? It shows you the rewards of every mission before you decide to play it. The world is huge in scale and content, and every side activity has a reward. For clearing mongol camps you earn points to get a new stance (and a new fast travel location), for doing bamboo challenge's you earn more Determination, Fox Shrines a new amulet. EVERYTHING makes you progress, that makes the game so worth to complete. The locations are beautiful and sometimes you need to think of how are you going to enter one location, because it's not like everything is on the same level. You have distant islands, mountains, caves, temples. At the same time you can do many different things to transverse those envrionments. Remember when I said the game doesn't treat you like an idiot? This is one of the things that make a difference. All of the time I remebered Shadow of the Colossus, where getting to a place is part of the challenge. The game also makes the fighting very satisfying. It's not easy, sometimes I struggled to get past some enemies. It's challeging and it's rewarding. Also it has SO MANY upgrades and different paths you can make that everyone Jin will play different. Some will prefere to do an stealth route, others an Archer and another one can make a Tanker Samurai. Everything is possible, there is no right way to do it. The game also has duels in which the player has to use every samurai skill to win. It's really awesome. The Story and Sountrack are great, I could spend more time talking about how polished and good the game is, but I don't think that is necessary. The game just is awesome, a game changer. Everyone who said the game doesn't do anything new can't use their brains (huuur open world with collectibles = something we have). GoT does everything different with a huge amount of content, a beautiful world, a great story and not treating you like an idiot. That's all we needed from a Samurai Open World Game.


This is the first game i have ever completed 100% of. It looks amazing and feels just great, it’s funny and it has heart felt moments. Best game of the year so far
Its a good open world game with satisfying combat. It doesn't try to do much that's new. Its pretty standard stealth and fighting very much like an Assassin's Creed game. It has a lot of character and depth. It also looks pretty outdated. Its almost a comic book drawing style. The "fur" texture on the armor is really muddy looking and it looks like use of a lot of 2014 assets.
The game has very solid fundamentals, a decent plot and good combat. It occasionally feels unpolished, with quite a lot of environmental clipping, not-unfrequent glitches and mediocre character writing and facial animations. The stealth gameplay is also utterly mediocre and many of the side-activities are pretty meh, albeit they're perhaps redeemed in that they give you an opportunity to explore the game's beautiful world. The actual side missions are generally good. The story doesn't really get going until the end of act two, and act 3 is perhaps a little rushed. I know that sounds like a lot of criticism, and you're perhaps wondering why I'd give it an 8 if it has all these problems. Tbh most of these are pretty minor, and the games music, setting and core combat are so good that the overall experience is still great fun.

یەک لە باشترین یارییە ڤیدیۆییەکانە دەربارەی هونەری جەنگی و سامورای و کلتووری ژاپۆنی. من چێژێكی یەکجار زۆرم لێبینی و پێشنیار دەکەم هەمووکەسێک دەرفەتێک بەم یارییە بدات و تاقی بکاتەوە

This by far the best game I've played all year, its has very engaging story and characters that will keep you coming back for more, with many side quest and other actives there is always something to do and have fun. Also with such a well written story the moments that have emotional impact really last, I may do another play-through sometime real soon.

Jogo entrega o que se propóe, me divertiu do inicio até o fim, estou com 45 horas e continuo jogando, realmetne parece muito um AC, é claro com bem menos orcamento, já que as cidades/vilas são bem pequenas e repetidas, com poucas pessoas renderizadas e um ambiente menos vivo, porém nesse jogo não é um problema, já que retrata uma ilha do Japão feudal, onde realmente não havia essas construções grandiosas como o AC tem q fazer em uma Grécia ou Egito da vida... O jogo se destaca pela jogabilidade e gráficos incríveis, ele mistura foto realismo com um pouco de estilo artístico nao realistico nas paisagens e arvores/plantas, o que foi legal pois é muito bonito de olhar as paisagens e tirar print. Quanto a gameplay, ela me divertiu bem mais do que os últimos AC, achei bem mais desafiadora, apesar de que poucas x morri em baralha e mais em quedas kkk, pq por mais q os inimigos sejam dificeis vc ganha muita vida e determinação (usado para recarregar a vida) muito fácil e rapido, então antes mesmo de entrar na 2 parte do mapa, vc já está OP, ao menos eu q fiz quase tudo antes do final do ato 1. A customização do jogo tbem é muito legal, e se sair futuros updates ficara mais ainda! Bom, tem muito mais oq se falar, mas preferi resumir nisso, o jogo é muito bom no que se propõe, e dificilmente não vai te entreter. Ele só não é um jogo nota 10 justamente por não ser tão complexo/grande nos cenários de confrontos e tbem pq o personagem principal Jin não é tão receptivel igual um Joel... Mas se levar só em conta a diversão, o jogo é incrivel e por isso dou nota 9!
awesome game, can't tell how good it is. Everything, the combat, the outfits the island is so damn beautiful.. sheesh that game.. made my days/weeks/months
Gameplay: Sweet, satisfying, and not overly complex (unlike the recently released Nioh 2, which feels excessive and bloated, by comparison). Story: The story is up there with the best of them in gaming, rivaling that of RDR 2 and Witcher 3. Controls: The game controls exactly like you want it to. Graphics/Sound: Absolutely stunning visuals, art direction, soundtrack, and sound effects. Replayability: I look forward to revisiting this game with great frequency.




I've played ghost of tsushima and it's a really good game like the combat, it's characters and the story. While i do love ghost there are some things i don't like, for example the camera is sometimes messy during combat and the targeting system is not that great and while the story great but it's predictable but that doenst mean the whole game isn't great.

Caught me by surprise! What a game. They nailed it with this one. Can't believe these graphics are doable on the base ps4. This is first ever metacritic review. Im glad that its positive. Many ways to describe this game. "ITS LIKE _____ MIXED WITH ______. " Get this game. A ten for me. Right down my alley. B

This game is a near master piece. With an engaging story, possibly the most amazing visuals I have ever seen in a game and a brilliant soundtrack. The voice acting is best experienced in Japanese. The English VO falls a bit flat in delivery. The only things that prevent this game being perfect are it’s side characters and side quests.
Simply one of the best games I've played, from the story to the game play and graphics this game has it all. If you haven't played it do yourself a favour and buy this game!!
Great storytelling, amazing and satisfyingly awesome combat, awesome stealth options and a game that just keeps giving the more you play. A must play game
I only buy a few games a year as im a casual gamers, my kids do most of the gaming. I got really excited for this title as im a huge fan japanese era genre. Im only a couple hours in and i must say its amazing . Its beautiful graphics , superb script & dialog so far. The game play is simple enough for me to grind thru hence casual gamer. Even my non gamer wife can't help but to follow along watching. Ill def provide an update as i progress. Took me 3 days and many stores to find a copy .was def worth it


Ghost is one of the best games i have played, Ever since i started playing it, i have been hooked to it. The fact this game literally got me interested in feudal japan and got me look up articles and videos show how well the game has managed to capture the samurai way of life. The combat feels really fun and the atmosphere in the game is outstanding. There r some bugs here and there in the game tho but nothing major, A masterpiece for me and obv the best game of this year till now,

First of all I want to address the things that were negative about this game: As you may have heard in many reviews the camera doesn't always behave in your favor which is true. Though for me there have been very few instances where this has caused major problems, it was still very annoying at times. There are other games where this works better. This could be esily fixed by making everything that is between the camera and the character transparent, at least in combat, especially when it's right in front of the camera and blocking the entire screen. As I've said, it didn't cause any major problems for me but it was pretty annoying in some situations. The other thing that bugged me was the ocean sound. I can't help it but the ocean sound and wave sound effects seem to me like they've been recorded on a phone. Compared to all the other sound effects it seemed unclean and low quality. Now maybe my brain is just misinterpreting it and the sound effect is perfectly fine but whenever I was at the shore it felt off. Now the next point I'm going to make isn't really a criticism but more a wish for the future. New Game+. Especially since there are alot of outfits and colours that can only be unlocked late in the game it would be nice to have a New Game+ mode where you can use all of them from the beginning. They could still add a New Game+ mode with a patch but right now, there really isn't anything like this. So, now that I told you everything that bugged me with the game, let me tell you about what I loved. There is a very minimalist HUD. In fact, when you run around and explore the world there is not a single HUD element on screen. You use the wind to guide you to your next questmarker which works perfectly fine and doesn't take away from the immersion. this really helps you to look at the world, explore and immerse yourself. The combat is fluent, interesting and it is a decent challenge. Now it isn't as challenging as a Dark Souls game or as Sekiro for example but it's way more exciting than Assassins Creed in my honest opinion. The world itself is beautiful - the art and level design is really impressive. The voice acting is also done really well. I played the Japanese dub. Now the movement of the mouth is matched with the English dub and some players were irritated when they played the Japanese dub but I personally wasn't bothered by that at all. In fact hearing the Japanese voices helped me to get even more immersed in the world and the story. And speaking of the story, this is the one thing that surprised me the most. This game tells it's story so beautifully. Major Spoiler Coming in: The conflict between Jin and his uncle, Lord Shimura is at the heart of this story. Lord Shimura values honour above all and so does Jin at the beginning of the game. Lord Shimura is a father figure for the protagonist and at some point he even wants to adopt Jin as his rightful son and heir. Those two love and respect each other. But as you progress the story as Jin you realise that by staying true to the honourable way of the Samurai you will ultimately fail and risk the lives of many people. So Jin sacrifices his honour to fight for the people. Lord Shimura cannot accept this since he would rather sacrifice himself and all of Tsushima in the name of honour. This drives the two apart. They still love and respect each other but their views are fundamentally different. At the end they fight each other in a duel. A heartbreaking scene. Up to this point I had hoped that the two could be together again as father and son and though Lord Shimura doesn't want to kill Jin, he wants Jin to take responsibility for his crimes and face his punishment as an honourable Samurai would. Jin wins the duel and Lord Shimura is wounded, begging Jin to grant him a warriors death. Now the player is presented two options: You can grant Lord Shimuras dying wish and kill him, or you can spare him. And although this is the last point in the game and my decision wouldn't affect the game at all I was torn apart. I don't want Lord Shimura to die, I don't want to kill my father but at the same time I know that if I spared him he would never forgive me and the only way to reconnect with him one last time is to grand him a warriors death. This choice and the ultimate ending of the game impacted me more than I imagined, I was really taken by surprise by all the emotions I felt in that moment. It is definitely a story that I want to experience again in the future. Now taking all of that into account a more honest score would be a 9.5. There are a few minor issues that I had with the game and none of them really affected the fun I had playing. So therefore I lean towards the 10/10. I know that no game ever really deserves a 10/10 but this game really stuck with me for days after I finished it and I still think about the stories it managed to tell. I can easily recommend this game to anyone who likes RPGs.
Interesting rich "mosaic" narrative with very well written characters and faithful to the Japanese historical setting. Satisfying combat with many interesting ideas that keep it fresh throughout the hours. Great artistic direction, loving the Kurosawa black&white mode. Also one of the best intro in the last years! Maybe only misses a bit more variety when it comes to side contents (a bit repetitive to follow 20+ foxes!). Overall well done Sucker Punch, stunning and impressive!
This sh#¡t is the bomb!! If you're hesitating, don't, go buy it. Play it on hard for better experience. Only 1 complaint, constantly rescuing people from the mongols on the road might get tiresome from time to time
Simply stunning one of the best PlayStation games made.It makes me feel like i'm in 13 century Japan excellent visuals as you see the leaves blow in the wind as you check for your next destination.Combat is solid switching stances is simple. play as you wish as a samurai or ghost as you eliminate the mongol threat invading Japan. to save your uncle from the vile clutches of Kahn. This is the send off PlayStation needs. 9 out of 10
Kudos to the Dev for creating such a wonderful game for any fans of Samurai and Japanese culture. The game is so gorgeous on the PS4 Pro and an OLED 4K. At times, you just stare and marvel at how amazing the environment looks life like. Gameplay wise, cant’t say it does anything new, as it’s an open world quest system everyone is accustomed to, so the one point lost is for this. . The combat is fun however, manoeuvring between stances to counter your enemies. When you get into a duel, and perfect parries your opponent to cut them down in one slice, it makes you feel absolutely like a Samurai. That’s what in my opinion, sets the game apart. It really creates a wonderful, stylish, and rich open world Japan setting to get lost in.
Muy pero muy entretenido, es una aire fresco para las exclusivas de playstation. Se los recomiendo a cualquiera pero en especial a aquellos que aman la cultura Asiática.

Most beautiful and riveting game of the year. Absolutely love the art style and the challenge of the fighting. Decent story but the cinematography is on par with movies. Will always go back to play

Great Game, It's the best Sucker Punch game i've played personally. This maybe the first western PS Exclusive that i play more than once because the gameplay feels really fun and satisfying. Cons: Can't hide bodies in a stealth game? This obvious. Where are the choices? Sucker punch is known for their infamous series where they give you choices to where the story can go. Wish they had give me the choice to let me choose wether i want to be samurai and ninja (ghost) Yuna - I dont understand why she was so prominent in the story, we could have done with-ought her. The story kept pushing her as some one i needed to care about but i didn't? She was serious and stoic just like Jin which made their interaction uneventful and boring. The game was missing some levity. Playing a game for 60 hours and everyone just being depressed or dying get exhausting. I understand the subject matter is serious but even Yakuza has a dramatic story but they still have fun funny side quests to balance things out. Because remember this is a game not a movie. Needed way more dismemberment. Ryuzo was wasted. He was the only other character (besides Khan, Uncle and Jin) i thought was cool so the way his arc ended was very disappointing. I had wish his conclusion ended in a more positive way especially since the rest of the cast of "friends" are lame. The Supporting Cast - the crew you recruit just don't do it for me, they have their background and stuff but i didn't really get invested in any of their stories. Quite honestly i would have been ok if Jin went through his Journey all alone.

One of the best games ever made for PS4 , the graphics, gameplay, story telling , combat and overall experience is just mesmerizing, won’t be adding any spoilers here for the ones who would like to enjoy the game to the fullest, i highly recommended playing it.
I can't stress enough how gorgeous this game is. I swear to God, I was expecting a above average open world game. I truly didn't see this coming. Two main things in the game, gameplay and graphics. I've never seen such beautiful landscape in an open world game. I use photo mode every 10 minutes and this is a BIG thing, since it's the first time I give a **** about this function. The feeling of just contemplating Tsushima is similar to what I had playing The Witcher 3 (especially the last DLC), Red Dead Redemption 2, Uncharted 4 and The Last of Us (these last two don't really count since they're more linear and story driven). Gameplay is just fluid (minor bugs that don't kill the experience and are likely to be patched in future updates). Combat makes you feel like you're a samurai (haha can't believe I just said this). The 4 four stances and how you can learn to change between them during combat feels so baddass. Slicing, cutting and killing feels real and brutal. (unlike Assassin's Creed and some other games). Starting the game you may feel there's not much in combat, but start upgrading to become Afro Samurai, Batoussai, Sekiro, Isshin Ashina, Genichiro, etc. Story so far is a 8,0-8,5, pretty good for an open world title. (I'm still in the beginning, since I'm loving to explore, upgrade, duel and let this immersion take me to all corners pf this island. Jin is a great protagonist and a wonderful add to PlayStation's list of amazing characters. This game really surprised me, no joke


Me parece un juego plano, que no añande nada nuevo al medio, un sandbox común y corriente siendo este más repetitivo. Ahora la iluminación del juego es sumamente sobresaliente pero no destacaría nada mas
buying this game is the best choice i made in 2020. atmosphere / overall vibes: 10/10 graphics: 10/10 story: 10/10 gameplay: 10/10 customization: 10/10 i found a glitch tho. but still an outstanding game nonetheless love from Indonesia!

Ghost of tsushima is without a doubt the game of the year 2020. The gameplay is a lot of fun and so diversse that makes you really feel like a samurai.The graffics are top notch and in combination with the gameplay it really makes you lose yourself into the island of Tsushima.As for the story I have no words.Very well written characters and very well structured story with betrayal,sacrifices and loss. For me it's up in my top 3 favorite games.

Not much to say but the combat felt sometimes off with the parry system and when you try to switch to another enemy to attack it would most the time miss so I found myself just fighting one enemy at a time. Other then this story and soundtrack was great, except for one part in the story and graphics was outstanding I found myself in aww with the surroundings.
I absolutely loved this game. Great story and characters, beautiful soundtrack and open world, brilliant graphics and combat gameplay - all in all just a great gaming experience. After the disappointing TLOU2 I'm glad to see, that Sony ends this generation on a high note.

the best game I've played since the first Red Dead Redemption. God Of War was great but it never made me cry. Red Dead Redemption 2 was good, but I knew where things would up. This....was another level of fantasy fulfilment. I always wanted to be a ronin, a yojimbo, a ninja and a quiet Samurai, roaming the land, testing and honing my craft to defend the innocent. Sucker punch has absolutely exceeded my expectations and have topped them with a great soundtrack. please get this game . Its legendary. best game of the genration for me. Best game since the first Red dead.
Must play if you have PS4. The last open world game that I enjoyed so much is BOTW and ghost of tsushima if definitely up there in term exploration. The game make you want to explore the whole area and the graphics are just breathtaking. Gameplay is really good and to be honest the combat is quite challenging in hard mode. I got my ass whooped by some Ronin duels to unlock kensei armor. So far this game and FF7R are my GOTY.


Amazing Game. This game perfectly captures the atmosphere of Japan in the Mongol invasion of Tsushima. Great and addicting swordplay action, amazing music, and one of the most beautiful open world games I have ever played. This is by far the best game from Sucker Punch to date.
Great graphics, beautiful landscapes, no complaints about the look or art style. The combat is pristine. I have ZERO complaints. It is amazing. I always want to fight people in standoffs, and in regular situations. The "ghost" part of the game is really good too. The AI could be better with the stealtg but otherwise no complaints.
Posso dire che con questo gioco , si è riaccesa quella fiamma da videogiocatore hard core che albergava in me ... ormai i giochi degni di portata erano pochi , anzi pochissimi ... potrei scrivere 10000 caratteri ma ci sono persone e giornalisti più in gamba di me , vi posso dire che se avete perso voglia e fiducia nei videogiochi , ghost of tsushima vi farà accendere la fiamma più recondita in voi stessi

Possible Game of the Year contender, great, fun gameplay and combat that never gets old, and a great story about a samurai who must betray his code to save his people.
This is literally one of the best games I’ve played in a long time, if you enjoy good story, likable characters, samurai or even having fun get this game!
I would give it a 9.5 if I could but if not in math we round up lol. What an awesome game. I like even more after the Last of Us 2 it's so sho nice to hop into a badass video game "video game". Graphics in a difference sense are as amazing as the last of us. Gameplay in ghost is just so much better. The fighting is AMAZING


Loved every second of this masterpiece. Gameplay 10/10 Story 10/10 Graphics 9.5/10 Love the peace and beautiful scenery this game has to offer. Overall 10/10
This game is excellent, loved every minutes of it. It is an example of how open world games should be made. The best part of this game is the battle system, it is visceral, responsive and exciting. The graphics are not the best I've seen in games, but they are some of the best in the open world genre.
What a beautiful game. From start to finish you are immersed in this amazing world. Jin is one of my favorite protagonist in video games EVER. Love it. Go and play it, you won't regret it!
A fantastic piece of art of a game, great visuals, simple understandable story and has an awesome way of combat style, combining stances with heavy and light attacks dodges and parries. I really enjoyed every bit of this game, good job sucker punch!
Absolutely love this game Story - epic Gameplay - awesome Graphics - unbelievable Character development - deep Characters - relatable Quests - interesting
Overall great game. Excellent story behind. Combate system and AI needs a little more to be touched, but enjoyable in many ways. The ambient and sorroundings is a complete show of art. As a personal note, no one will regret buying this game.


It's like playing a Kurosawa movie. The art direction is at its best. The environments and colors are like you're in that Tale. The gameplay and combat works perfect. I always rooted for Suckerpunch games since Infamous and I'm very glad they brought the ps4s best game as its last game. Thanks.

The Idea of beautiful map with winds to guide player to their destination is great! Although the game play is a little repetitive, I still love it! If this game is going to have a sequel, please! please! Do not let this IP ruined by SJW like other 10/10 game. Please continue your good work Sucker Punch!
Absolutely a blast to play; such a fantastic swan song for the PS4. From the minimal HUD, to the absolutely incredible sense of exploration, there hasn’t been a more fun game to explore since Breath of the Wild.

Sure, it has some flaws. Sure, some of the quests can get repetitive. But I've never had so much fun exploring and discovering a new game world. Ghost of Tsushima offers a thoroughly enjoyable gaming experience with a surprisingly engaging plot, all of it embedded in the most beautiful setting ever. It sure is the best looking gane. Period. I can't understand how people could rate this a zero. Even if you don't enjoy the gameplay, at least give it a few points for the graphics or similar... If you like open world games, interesting plots and action gameplay, and you're not part of the PC crowd or the people who "need to hate this game because everyone else thinks it's great", you will truly enjoy your time with this gem of a game. I promise!
Очень красочная и красивая игра. Неплохой сюжет и классные миханники. Всем рекомендую
Шикарная игра в стиле древней Японии, крутая атмосфера, озвучка, графика, заодно можно гладить лисичек, всем советую
Halfway through 2020 Sucker Punch very well may have the GOTY on its hands. The developers nailed the story, combat, aesthetic, and added their own innovations to the tried and true open world model. I often find myself intensely looking for the next story element but also engaged in the side-content. Overall it is just a true pleasure to be in this open world. This one joins The Witcher 3 and RDR2 as one of the greatest open world games of all time.

One of the best open world gane I've ever experienced. People are comparing this game with assassin's creed. But it is not. Some elements of the open world game remains same. Every good open world games have checkpost kind of thing. So we can't blame on that and say it's a copy of assassin's creed. First of ubisoft don't make this kind of a epic story. Old ubisoft game are awesome but now they're lacking. So please don't misunderstand this game with assassin's creed.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the Top 5 games of the generation. Just platinumed it and I’m blown away. What an astonishing game. The gameplay is so deep, addicting, and satisfying and the graphics are absolutely breathtaking. Looks like an epic painting at times. Stand offs are brilliant and will NEVER get old, the game has deeper mechanics than I ever would’ve imagined, and “boss fight” duels are glorious and intense. Game of the Year. A stunning labor of love. Akira Kurosawa would be proud. Sucker Punch outdid themselves with this game.
Well, to begin with. After playing TLOU2, this game is like bathing in a rose-petalled spa bath in comparison. Beautiful looking game with a very satisfying combat system once you begin to get a handle on it. I like the unconventional method of navigation which helps in the immersion of the game. Only really just started the game but I can see it could well be living amongst the ranks of The Witcher 3 and AC Odyssey for gameplay and enjoyment. Hope Sucker Punch introduce New Game + because it's definitely a game I can see myself playing again.

Хорошая игра, не отличная и я попытаюсь объяснить почему я так считаю. Открытый мир тебе не приходится исследовать, за тебя это делает ветер, лично меня это несколько возмутило, учитывая то, что они вдохновлялись breath of the wild. Также можно заметить некую недоделанность игры по типу отсутствия реакции на убийство первого босса или некоторые места, где Дзин начинает скользить, также лично мне не понравился прицел у лука, уж слишком он большой. Ну вот и закончились мои придирки. Игра в первую очередь интересует своей боевой системой, она классная и развивается на протяжении всей игры.
Incredible game, played through it three times already, and are still not tired of it. So much fun and can't recommend this enough. Solid value for money, entertaining to its last drop.


It is such an awesome game. The story the gameplay and the graphics are in perfect match. You get to play as Jin Sakai. The ghost samurai swinging and dancing your sword through an army of Mongolia to save the island of Tsushima front the mongol invasion. I loved everything about the game. I have completed the game and playing on hard for the second time

10 out 10, an absolute masterpiece. Sucker punch has nailed every aspect of this game, the story, the satisfying gameplay and the jaw dropping visuals. I am disgusted by the Last of Us 2 butthurt fanboys ranking this 0. It shows how immature and pathetic they are.
I love this game. Worth every penny. I don't even use the fast travel feature because its so fun to just roll around which isn't something I can say about any other game. Definite must play.
This game made me feel how was it like to be a samurai more or less, the gameplay is not that punishing, but can make you pay if you lose your focus, i can say the story was amazing specially those of Jin's allies.

This game, man. It has flaws, for sure, but they are so insignificant when you realise how well SP nailed the rest. How they managed to finally make you as a player look at the open world, instead of keeping eye on the minimap/compass. How they simply made birds and foxes tell you, where points of interest are. Just for that they deserve an applause. And then there is the foliage, the scenery, the colours, the fact that you memorise locations just by the way they look... That is just awesome. Now gameplaywise. Stealth is pretty basic and nothing new imo, exept the fear factor maybe (which is in combat too), but the combat, that is the way to play it. You are a MF samurai. You switch stances, make split second decisions, imagine Arkham/Mordor combat combined with Sekiro. It is not exactly only hybrid of those two, but it is the best adjective I can come with. Combat rules, okay? Now the narrative. At first I was little afraid I will be disappointed and that the side quests will be kinda just there for the sake of side activities, but boy, was I wrong... Prologue and Act I truly is a bit boring (except parts with the main villain), but when you get to the beginning of the Act II, that is when the main story, and side quests (many of them are a one big continuing story you follow through till the very end of the game, if you choose to do so) will pick up and you are set for a ride. Score: Simply fantastic. In the and it is not a 9/10 for its perfection, but for the fact it nails right so many things other open world games just cannot. It is an honest game made with passion that tries to show us that it can be done differently. Now go and play it, for god's sake!

Gameplay:10/10 so addictive and smooth and fluid combat and is NOTHING like sekiro or assassin's creed and the combat movements and samurai traditions and feel in this game is inspired by REAL LIFE SAMURAIS that's why the combat is the most samurai like yet. their inspiration is real life samurais. World 10/10 design wise/graphic wise/immersion wise Soundtrack 8/10 Tech 10/10 The game is easily 9,5-10/10

A stunning work of art with emotionally charged performances from the cast and immaculate combat, plus a gorgeous score to boot. Artistic license has been taken, but it makes for a cinematic experience unlike any other game I've played. Added to that there is the hugely generous customization options so you can personalise your time with the game beautifully. A worthy cap of the Ps4 era.
What an absolute **** masterpiece of a game, I’m like 20 hours in and I’m only in act one! This game is so much **** fun, I’ve never poured this much time in a game and it’s side quests just because it’s fun and because the side quests are actually fun to do and give you cool **** serious GOTY contender

After playing 20 hours I’m still not done! This game keeps amazing me the more I play it. The most authentic samurai game to date and a must play for all gamers !
I just started Act 3. The game is very enjoyable but it has its issues. I love the different fighting stances depending on who you’re facing. The story is not great; it’s ok. Overall, it’s a solid 8/10 for me.
30 hours in and it's easily the best open world game I"ve ever played. Big enough world to get lost in for hours, but not big enough that it's bare and only has repetitive, grindy locations littering the entire map (Assassin's Creed....) The game has great, smooth gameplay and a very easy to learn combat system that's fun through the entire playthrough. As you progress you learn more and more skills and techniques that add more options to how you play, and while sounding very simple, it keeps it paced well enough that you're constantly earning rewards, as opposed to buying boosters for quicker progression... This game is very easily one of the best games to launch this generation, and worth every penny of my $65 I spent on it.
I'm giving this game a 10 because I can't stop playing it. I am having so much fun with it, and I can't wait to try it again at higher difficulties. I'll break it down, 'Barney style' (anyone get that reference? no? okay.) Story is pretty good, side missions actually have made me feel feelings and I like the characters. Stealth is the weak sauce here, if I'm honest. Honestly, if you played Tenchu Stealth Assassins, it really is a lot like that (which is not a bad thing). Exploring is freaking awesome! and with that photo mode is something I always laughed at as a feature until now. Combat is excellent. Honestly, it is what I wanted the original assassins creed to be. Swordplay is so good, I often don't want to be stealthy because I'd rather face off with the entire camp to show how much of an amazing swordsman I am. However, the star of the show is the fact that you feel like a Samurai playing this game. You want to explore, you want to help the locals, you want to rid of the land of the invaders and you want to get better at playing the game. Overall well designed, well thought out, and also FUN! Thank you SuckerPunch! I love this game! If you read this, please know... DLC will be bought if made :-D Ultimately, the game is so fun, and so well done, that it deserves a 10. Sucker Punch... DLC please :-D


When first seeing the gameplay and story trailers I had really high expectations, but this game surpassed them all. The story felt new, interesting and kept me hooked. The side quests, which is where a lot of RPGs tend falter, were really good. Never did it feel like the side quests dragged on nor did they get boring. Most of these side quests also had twists to make them more interesting and surprising. The gameplay was extremely fun; the movement made me feel quick and nimble, the combat was really cool and thrilling especially as you unluck more stances, and exploring the world was a truly great experience. I'm sure most agree that Ghost of Tsushima has the most beautiful environment ever seen in a video game. The only place I was a little disappointed was in the lack of variety in boss movesets, but I guess there's only so much you can do with a katana/sword. Overall, highly recommend playing this game!
What a great game! Great graphics, great gameplay and overall great fun! I thought nothing could outdo Spider-Man but now I beg to differ! It’s just an amazing story! I am guessing it’s going to be GOTY this year!

This game is so much FUN, yeah, no Depression Simulator II. Just Fun Game. I played over 40 hours now and im not getting bored. Insane Atmosphere and nice Visuals. Pros: -Gamplay -Story -Character Design -Stunning Visuals -Locations -Game mechanics -Sound -Animations (they are not the best but the do a good job) Cons: -only 30fps mode For my this game is 10/10. Why you may ask? Buy and play it, you will see why ;-)
This game is great! She cannot be compared to Creed Assassins or other rubbish. Such work .. all these little things, movement technique, hokku, music, sword style (I especially like the water stand) leave an indescribable impression! Everything is done with soul and love. The best thing that could be at sunset ps4. This is how games should be, not a mediocrity sick with fantasy.
I gave it a 10/10 because i can not put 9.7/10. I am going to explain why i definitely think this is going to be GOTY, but is not a perfect game. Everything in this game is awesome, beautiful, or stupidly well written, Sucker Punch did it again, they made me cry with the ending. It's such a beautiful moment, that really embraces everything the game was about, it makes the game feel completed. Gameplay is pretty standard, i wouldn't say it´s groundbreaking and does things very differently, but its not like some have said that it is a lot like Assassin´s Creed, anyone that says that, played AC once and that´s it, and it's coming from an AC fan, and even then the best one it's not even close to GoT. That being said, simplicity once again outperforms complex gameplay. Some people think that the main focus of a game should be the gameplay, and i feel its just wrong, neither is the story the center of it all, you can have either without the other, and that's a balance GoT has mastered to perfection, cause the main drive isn't for you to experience a never seen before gameplay, bu to experience the conflict, story, and battles as much as possible. Story wise its perfect, its a 10/10 in those regards, excellent writing, excellent performances, and excellent characters, just like Infamous Second Son, Sucker Punch have delivered a masterpiece in storytelling and character development. So....why not 10/10? Mainly because of bugs, repetitive scenarios near the end, i mean it still looks beautiful, the art is always amazing, but i feel the last territory isnt as spectacular as the first 2. There is also some side quests that aren't really that interesting, and you can easily lose focus on it rapidly, however gameplay for all of this have an amazing pacing going from story, to battles. GoT is definitely the best game of this year, a true masterpiece we should all give them a huge round of applause to Sucker Punch, Sony should definitely invest more money and faith in them, can't wait to see what they bring next

A mecânica de combate e stealth é bem satisfatória. A arte do jogo está muito bonita, tirando alguns detalhes micro, como pegadas no chão, a forma como ele se movimenta em escadarias e água que é bem feia, o jogo é sim muito bom.
One of the most beautiful games made in this generation with jaw dropping visuals and atmosphere, solid and entertaining gameplay, superb music, professional voice acting with very deep characters and story. Actually the scenery is so artistic, it’s like a tsunami of beauty hits your screen. I can’t believe they’ve crafted it to such detail. It sets an example of how games should be made.
what a beautiful game. first game in my life that makes me stop playing just to contemplate the incredible word color and life it has. The gameplay its amazing and when you try it at lethal difficulty it fells so awesome to play. The story is wonderful and it really makes you fell you are in war against a very strong enemy and the sacrifices you have to make hit you in the feelings. My experience with this game was a 10/10 love it and fully recommend it!
I cannot remember the last time I was this glued to an Open-world RPG! Not to mention ACTUALLY WANTING to do the side quest, so I can keep exploring the island, which is beautiful! And the combat is great, super rewarding once you start to get the hang of it all. You NEED to play this game!
(9.5) excellent game. Great story, and gameplay. I even collected everything I could and had fun doing it every step of the way, which is unusual for me.

So atm i put it down. aka- " BORED-QUIT" But the game is good.. ~I will return to it soon. But something did bore me right after i got the bow.. I dunno, maybe the pace, maybe the corny/lame story. Maybe it's boring Feudal Japan. i dunno.. I do know im happy i own it & look forward to returning to it.. But just not enough to return to it... im sure it heats up once u get enough skills & exp to be able to roam at will... I give it a 10 because im pretty sure my beefs are on me & not the game...


Ok not much to spoil! so here's my review GREAT GAME! OVERALL! I've only been playing for about a week as for the little things there's so many things that could be changed like when walking up stairs it's like he's just walking on a flat surface...when the factor comes to "hunting" like they could've gave us more animals to choose from but to wrap things up the adventure and amount of battles and many people to fight and upstage like they did great on that part and great story mode loved it! Wish customizing could've been more details but it was super great! Thank you for everything SUCKER PUNCH LOVED THIS GAME!
I just finished the game and still can't put my controller down because still so many side quests and hidden items to be done. Love the game and definitely will platinum this one!

I had to make this account just for this game. No other game that I can think of can make me cry in the end. The fact that you had to choose between sparing and saving (spoiler) in the end was so powerful. 10/10

What an amazing game, took me two weeks to reach the credit, having prioritized side content before main quest. The game has so many moving parts working in tandem, making it even better than the sum of its parts. Usually when I say "better then the sum of its parts", I'm usually using the phrase to justify a good excellent score to a mostly decent game. however the individual parts in this game not only work in tandem, but are all of high calibur in presentation, production, execution and consistency. amazing graphics, great combat, stellar sound and music design, fantastic usage of side content to flesh out the world, all culminating to a cohesive and amazing experience through and through. instant classic in my eyes, go and support Sucker Punch! mostly underrated studio, that have with this game cemented their mark on gaming history!
Not sure where to beggin with this game. The most obvious thing to note at first are the stunning graphic visuals and the period aesthetic of the game. But saying the game is just a top of the gen eye candy would be heresy. The main story of the game brings out so many emotions as you embark the journey of the main character feeling what hes feeling in moment of tragedy, honour, self discovery and revenge. There is also something addicting with mastering the way of the samurai or going with more nina-like tactis and trying to perfect both forms during combat. Overall this would be in my eyes a masterpiece. No real downside that would negatively affect my view on the game. Perhaps the only thing being that I want ever more content, even though finishing the main and secondary questlines will take you approximately 100-120hours if we include everything

It’s weird for my first review to be about an open world game, as I absolutely despise them....usually. Ghost seems to smooth over all of the things I dislike about those games. The side missions seem to matter first off. I never feel like I’m doing something meaningless or wasting my time. Resource collecting is sooooooo smoothly integrated that you never have to stop moving to collect. The combat is fluid, intuitive and ever evolving. This game is gorgeous. I have taken and uploaded multiple screenshots per play session just because my jaw had dropped. If I upload from my Pro to Twitter, you can load the image in 4K, and that is a sweet touch! The story and more hooked me from the start. I highly recommend this game.
I just got my platinum trophy for this masterpiece (even though I’m no trophy hunter) but I felt I had to out of respect for this game and for the amount of work put by the developers and I gotta say I enjoyed every minute playing this game, between side missions and exploring the world up to completing the main story, the game is visually stunning, the talent mode is simple yet rewarding and the photo made is a work of art the vast amount of things to do is refreshing and I highly recommend this game
The game looks good I never seen an open world more pretty. The combat is fun when you have a stand off waiting to slash at the right time is so satiating. The armor look just stunning. you can get dyes to change it's color. The story is a fine story nothing ground braking it still is a solid get the job done. The game looks like a better more polished assassins Creed set in japan. Well firing a bow takes some work to get use too. I feel the bow work sucks. I feel the game is a must play for any fan of swords, samurai and Sony.

Most games and movies that come out these days make you feel like you're having your face shoved in **** by sick industry people who think they're better and more moral than you for being nihilistic hacks. Ghost of Tsushima, on the other hand, feels like taking a cleansing bath in a hot spring. Every aspect of the game is overflowing with a respect for concepts that are maligned by today's media 24/7 - concepts like beauty, honor, tradition, manliness, bravery, sacrifice, nationalism, virtue, etc. From the moment Jin leans over to touch the grass as he rides through it on his horse in the intro, you are compelled to love and defend the island in all its beauty - this is your land, you know it, you love it, and you will fight for it. In many ways, Ghost of Tsushima is very similar to 1917 - an anachronistic story that starts off gritty and grounded in realism but which becomes a legendary, larger-than-life, homeric epic rooted in classical, traditional archetypes as it goes on. There is no subversion here, only sincerity. In terms of gameplay, this game is one of the best examples of character progression this generation, but what makes the gameplay truly special is the degree to which it informs and furthers the narrative goals of the game with regards to Jin's transformation into the ruthless Ghost. Unlike the experiences of Nathan Drake in the Uncharted games, which have singlehandedly popularized the idea of "ludonarrative dossonance", every action you take as Jin feeds into the narrative of Ghost of Tsushima to support and bolster it. In a rare display of growth in an industry beset with staleness, Sucker Punch has discarded all traces of gimmicky good/evil paths and has instead opted for a strong and clearly defined vision for Jin's story arc, and the result is a narrative full of conviction that feels like a breath of fresh air at a time when most games seem to be content to lazily push the player to "make their own story!" The side quests alone are more tragic and compelling than the entirety of TLOU2, but they don't make you feel like burning hot garbage because unlike the story of that game, Ghost of Tsushima's quests are written with a respect for characters and with an awareness of the importance of things like honor, dignity, and human life. Almost every side quest ends in an incredibly sad manner but the game handles these tragic moments in a way that reaffirms the importance of Jin's mission rather than devaluing it. The final and perhaps the best piece of the puzzle is the world of Tsushima itself, which bustles with the beauty of generations-old history and the suffering left in the wake of the invaders trying to destroy it. I don't think I ever ran past a single peasant that was being held hostage by mongols on the side of the roads along my path without stopping to rescue them, and it bothered me everytime I failed to save any of them because of a mongol who slipped by me and stabbed them before I could stop him. Such moments are littered throughout the game world and all its beautiful landscapes. You could be taking in the beauty of a forest of white trees bathed in moonlight one moment and then coming across the burned corpses of some innocent Japanese peasants in the middle of the same forest the next in a totally organic sequence that would then linger in your mind until you reached your next haiku spot on the edge of those very woods, and sat down to reflect on death. It's thanks to these moments that Ghost of Tsushima manages to be both more tragic but also more life-affirming than nihilistic trash like TLOU2, and becomes far more deserving of every GOTY award as a result. 10/10 one of the best game experiences of the generation next to Bloodborne and Sekiro, hands down.
As a whole, Ghost of Tsushima is a really, really fun game. With the story, I found it quite slow at the beginning and even boring with some of the missions as they seemed just to be like chores. But, when Act 3 came along, I started getting greatly invested in the story. This game has a fantastic ending, and with the addition of a stellar art direction, my eyes were glued to the screen — pure eye candy. On the other hand, combat and exploration are exceptionally entertaining. Overall, The reason I'm giving Ghost of Tsushima an 8 solely resides on my opinion that there could've been more polish to the Artificial Intelligence, which can be downright broken at times (I once ran into an enemy running in circles against the corner of a wall.), stealth mechanics, and maybe a little more character development (I found my self not quite interested in some of the side characters), but with its slick combat and thorough open-world mechanics and details, this is certainly a game I can easily recommend to anybody who's just looking for a good time.
I love this game way more fun than red red redemption 2 who would of thought, very good story good side quests combat is next level the world is beautiful can’t wait for part 2


Hands down best story driven game I’ve ever played. I have never cried from a video game like I did with this one. The honorable ending is so powerful and soul crushing. The story is fantastic with memorable characters and story lines. The graphics and open world setting is beautiful. Every mission or activity feels purposeful and fulfilling. Following golden birds for important upgrades and gear is so neat. It’s like fate guiding you to a specific area of significance. I saved to perform both endings and they are fantastic. One with honor and another with pride. This will be one of the most memorable games I’ll play for the PS4. It definitely deserves game of the year. I hope I’m not spoiling anything. If you haven’t played this, you need to go to wherever its is you get games and get it. So dumb, and I’m talking absolutely idiotic, that the meta score scored this lower than The Last of Us. It’s a joke. You need to play this. You will love it.

The best game i play since its anouncement in 2018. Great scenery, great gameplay, great story, great fight system. It is one of the best game ever made!
I'm gonna say this is the first game I had a desire to get a platinum trophie. The game is a love letter to every open world game made, and its fantastic. The story is actually better than I thought it was going to be starting the game. The combat was the real star, leaving three choices of stealth, archery, or sword play. The A.I isn't the smartest but it works with the game allowing you to do some crazy cool assassinations. I could go on and on but this IMO is a timeless classic that I'll see myself going back to.
Игра хорошая но есть недочеты как не лучшая стабильность (большое кол-во багов), и маленьких недочетов лично для меня. А так очень хорошая игра.
just completed the game on hard. loved it. I recommend playing it on hard to experience this game and the combat to the fullest. the world is amazing and the story is fantastic. though facial expression is off in japanese language and there are some bugs. overall 9 out of 10. A must play.
No words will describe how perfect this game is. Each and every single little thing in this game stands on it's own. This game is the very definition of masterpiece.

La mappa ha svariate sfaccettature tutte diverse, è la prima volta che occupo più di 3gb di spazio per le foto e le cinematiche che ho realizzato, per chi ama la cultura giapponese e ne apprezza i paesaggi questo gioco è un must. Se tutto ciò non bastasse ad accostarsi alla mappa c'è il combat system, curato in tantissimi dettagli che lo rendono appagante , per esempio le 4 forme da usare contro i nemici possono essere mischiate anche con gli strumenti per creare delle final kill fuori dal comune senza bisogno delle skill che si apprendono con le missioni(per skill intendo delle mosse che consumano la determinazione, ovvero la contro parte del mana per le magie che specifico non sono presenti, per dare vita a mosse finali incredibili, inoltre il sistema di parata e schivata sono perfetti e rendono giustizia alla leggenda dei samurai. La fase stealth l ho apprezzata soprattutto quando ben eseguita, infatti è bellissimo sbarazzarsi di 5 nemici in un attimo, questo è possibile solo grazie al parkour molto simile a quello di Assassin's Creed, con l aggiunta di un rampino alla Syndacate. Posso criticare sono la monotonia degli assassinii a catena, i quali hanno sempre la stessa animazione. L'esplorazione è uno dei punti cardini di questo gioco come ho scritto sopra, la mappa presenta tantissime aree diverse e fotogeniche che sono cosparse di innumerevoli punti di interesse divisi in 6 categorie più alcune speciali:si possono infatti onorare i santuari delle volpi, dei kami, tagliare il bambù, riflettere nelle sorgenti termali, comporre degli haiku e trovare oggetti di estetica nelle tombe dei guerrieri caduti (tutte queste attività si ripercuotono sottoforma di potenziamento). A questo proposito voglio soffermarmi sulla personalizzazione che all'inizio del gioco può non risultare gran ché, ma che da il massimo verso l'endgame, momento in cui si dà per scontato che tu abbia molte risorse. Per il comparto tecnico e grafico vi invito a vedere con i vostri occhi ciò che questo gioco ha da offrire, posso dirvi che il dettaglio che più mi ha colpito è quello dei particellari, ovvero le foglie che cadono dall'alto, queste foglie sono fisiche, ciò vuol dire che al contatto con il suolo diventeranno parte di mappa e che la stessa foglia se mossa dalla scia di vento del cavallo si risolleverà e fluttuerà fino a ricadere, e se la foglia cadesse in acqua rimarrebbe a galla e inizierà a muoversi lentamente come nella realtà. Ora, non è che dovete acquistare il gioco per le foglie, però quello delle foglie è l'esempio di quanto questo gioco sia curato nei minimi dettagli, non al pari di rdr2, ma che se messo in una scala dove rdr2 è 10, GoT lo seguirebbe con un 8,8. La storia ci racconta le vicende di Jin Sakai nella liberazione di Tsushima, ciò può risultare monotono ma se giocato bene vi terrà attaccati allo schermo per ore. P.s. io l'esperienza del completamento del gioco la paragono a un piatto di carbonara, dove tutti i vari punti di interesse vengono paragonati a dei pezzettini di guanciale in mezzo alla pasta, se questi vengono mangiati insieme possono dare un sapore, se lasciati per ultimi ne danno un altro, io consiglio di dirigersi da una missione all'altra a cavallo laddove il pezzo di mappa che separa te dalla missione fosse inesplorato e di non andare dritti alla quest' ma di completare i punti di interesse che si troveranno durante il cammino. La recensione finisce quí, buona giocata



Honestly, this is the greatest game I have ever played. Had this come out in 2019, I'd call it a contender for game of the decade. If you are to play just one game this year, please play Ghost of Tsushima. The breathtaking scenery, the perfect attention to detail, the true to life lore. I'll be honest I m already starting my second playthrough and I can anticipate many more.
Im not into OWG games, because most if not all open world games are tedious, repetetive and the like. I remember hating RDR2 because of its over-realism that you even need to press R1 to basically eat a soup. Ghost is different, it hits the sweet spot between fun and realism. I never used fast travel in this game for the reason that riding a horse in this world is so immersive, that i want to feel the cold breeze, the smell of flowers as you go quest by quest. The sword fight is so damn good. The mechanic to switch stances between enemy types is something new - atleast to me. The stealth, i must be honest, the AI is so DUMB even on highest difficulty that it drags away the xperience of becoming a ghost. I expect it atleast in the level of tlou2. The traversal is not that fluid, most of the time your movement will blocked by small things that you thought should already be passable - you know when you push the L STICK hard Main Story is decent, i wish they added more mythic tales though. Despite all the bugs and frustrations i got in this game, this game gives an awesome samurai experience. Another flawed masterpiece. I hope TLOU2 will win GOTY, but if, not Ghost really deserves the award as well. PART 2!!!!


At the end of the ps3 lifespan we had The last of Us as a masterpiece .Now at the end of the Ps4 lifespan We have Ghost of Tsushima,this is how the last of us 2 should have been.Masterpiece.

Game is beautiful! Its not the graphics that make is so beautiful but the colors! The story itself is hit or miss for some people but I've enjoyed it! I played it too 100% completion which is very for me to do. It losses a point for the camera during combat.Sometimes its perfect most the time a forgivable headache. Highly reccomend!
This game is absolutely beautiful. More importantly than that though, its fun to play. Having said that there are a few bugs/glitches I've come across. While they're not game breaking in the slightest they are immersion breaking and thats a big deal in a game like this in my opinion anyway. So far by biggest issue with the game for me is that there's no option to respec. Hopefully it gets added at a later date.
Great job Sucker Punch. Loved the landscape, the stories and the gameplay. Thank you for letting us play out the Samurai fantasy in the beatifull world you created.



Que jogo foda! História, gráfico, jogabilidade e trilha sonora tudo perfeito. Sistema de combate desse jogo é muito bom. Eu que não tenho paciência nenhuma para platinar resolvi platinar esse jogo. Minha unica crítica vai pra dificuldade que mesmo no letal continua bem fácil. A câmera no começo atrapalha um pouco mas no decorrer do game você acaba acostumando.


Que jogo foda! História, gráfico, jogabilidade e trilha sonora tudo perfeito. Sistema de combate desse jogo é muito bom. Eu que não tenho paciência nenhuma para platinar resolvi platinar esse jogo. Minha unica crítica vai pra dificuldade que mesmo no letal continua bem fácil. A câmera no começo atrapalha um pouco mas no decorrer do game você acaba acostumando.
Absolutely fantastic game. This is my first review, but this was such a great game I had to say something. The graphics, the gameplay, the story and missions, all amazing. The island feels alive and lived in and riddled with conflict. Beautiful written and performed characters brings the deeply engaging story to life. All aspects of the game are related in some way or another, be it stopping to help a traveler or engaging in a Mongol patrol party, it all circles back around. Having finally beaten it, I'm left craving more and nothing else seems to fill the hole it has left. Can't wait to start again
Amazing game. I actually rented this game and immediately bought it after the first few hours. The combat is great, the graphics are really something else, so beautiful and technically proficient. The story is interesting and the characters are likeable. Overall I would say this game is far and away the best I've played this year.
Story is a masterpiece. Game has great concepts and ideas which are implemented well throughout except some areas which need polishing. Mechanics could use some work which is why it isn’t a 10 but other than that it’s a must play.
Ghost of Tsushima is by far the best game I have ever played in 2020 because of the satisfying combat and the incredible views that you will see in the game. I think Sucker Punch made an excellent game after the Infamous second son. The only Bad thing about this game is just sometimes game repeat itself but I didn't felt like that much but overall this game is awesome. :)

What can I say: beyond my expectations! Graphically beautiful. The Game-play is easy to learn and well mastered. The soundtrack is just Fabulous. (Masaka Dono theme is just WoW) The story is well written, I did not get bored even once even in with the little stories. A very realistic open world with no unnecessary or inconsistent corners. Tsushima Island was very pleasant to walk. The characters, how not to speak about it, Shimura, Masako-dono, Ishikawa Sensei, Taka ... Yuna ... all equally charismatic with their own character, inhabitants of Tsushima, it was gratifying to follow their stories. It has been a long time since I had such a great gaming experience. Sucker Punch, Yooku dekita na : Omedetou, BRAVO !

Muy buen juego con personajes memorables que no se quedan en las dos dimensiones con una historia triste con buenos momentos que mientras avanzas se oscurece más, un divertido estilo de jugabilidad y un mapa más que diverso en las regiones haciendo un bonito mapa. En los enemigos se haya unos con diferentes estilos marcados por el estilo de combate del protagonista. Lo que podríamos decir que faltó son la variación de animales pero como el juego no está enfocado en cazar animales se le puede perdonar. Finalmente los objetos coleccionables están bien separadas y puestas en lugares hermosos del juego y fácil de encontrar si te pones a explorar el juego, como dije antes las misiones de la historia principal pasan de menos profundas a más haciendo que quieras ver que pasará después, las secundarias a menos que no se trate de un personaje principal no son tan memorables y llegan hacer algunas repetitivas aun así se disfruta al darte peleas y para mi los relatos míticos son la mayor razón para explorar ya que obtener esas armas, armaduras y técnicas míticas es una gran satisfacción a la hora de mejorar a Jin.
Created an account just to sing the praises of this masterpiece. That critic review of 83% is nonsense. This is the most immersive and exciting game I've played since Red Dead Redemption 2. I have a sneaking suspicion that if Naughty Dog had published it, many of these corporate review sites might be a little less critical, but that's neither here nor there. It's game of the year IMHO, and a helluva lot of fun. Enjoy!
Not a perfect game but the good definitely outweigh the bad. It takes a while for the combat to really click but eventually everything falls into place. Saying this game is beautiful is an understatement as it's not only the best looking ps4 game it's also the best optimized game for the console. If not for the repetitive activities and the uninspired side quests this game would have topped FFVIIR as my game of the year. Thankfully aside from that the game is definitely worth getting as its excellent storytelling, overall presentation and god tier openworld make for a very memorable experience.


What a beautiful ending for the PS4 era and sucker punch just mailed it! This game have stunning graphic beautiful music, the world feels so immersive that even side quest are a joy to do. This game bring honour to the Japanese culture and history. The only complaint I have that I wished camera was reactu5n better during frights. 10/10

for me this was a masterpiece. the combat was addicting and the story was captivating. i had a hard time putting down the controller and taking a break. sucker punch did an excellent job making you care about the characters even my horse. graphics were beautiful on ps4 pro. got the platinum.

Um jogo de altos e baixos. Seus visuais maravilhosos contrastam com alguns locais em baixa resolução. Seu combate é fluido e prazeroso, mas contrasta com uma câmera confusa que atrapalha em alguns momentos. Infelizmente é mais um game de mundo aberto com um motor físico mediocre. Muito fácil ver personagens flutuando após combate ou quando são expostos diretamente a algum objeto de cenario sem física aplicada. Ainda assim é um game melhor qye esses últimos Assassins creed e para a SuckerPunch uma evolução bem vinda
Just amazing, this game for sure is going to be versus Cyberpunk as GOTY. Combat, lore, soundtrack, characters, and a very touching end. Sucker Punch delivered it all.



Just finished the game, still have some things to do for platinum, but I'm over here crying as I write this review. That ending was absolutely with the amount of time spent exploring. This game is a beautiful send off to the PlayStation 4 and a great follow up for SuckerPunch studios. Bravo ladies and gents, Bravo.
It's certainly not without its flaws, but on the whole Ghost of Tsushima is exactly the kind of game I wanted right now and as a huge fan of Samurai media, this was a game I was always looking forward too. Featuring some of the best open world design to date, along with probably my favourite navigation system in an open world game ever, with a genuinely melancholic, and engaging story to boot with an incredibly emotional ending, Ghost of Tsushima is an epic in every sense if the word. Oh and the combat is sublime.


The game is incredibly fun. Beautiful graphics, it looks like a painting. Kurosawa mode is a beautiful tribute. I loved the combat! I don't remember playing any game with a posture system that varies according to the enemy. So much fun.

Having read some of the reviews and now beaten the game I fond myself wondering if I truly played the same game as everyone bombing this with zero as a score. I'll address this in a series of points: - Combat: The combat variety in the game is simply outstanding. 4 different sword stances are available (albeit you have to earn them, and this can be done easily within the first region). Each one provides for benefits and drawbacks against specific weapon types. It creates for a more dynamic combat system as opposed to raw button mashing like some of the negative reviews (and places like The Verge and others) would suggest. There are so many approaches to any individual fight whether it be the siege against Castle Shimura/Maneda or the many scattered Mongol camps. -Characters: I don't know what some people are smoking, but the character development in this game was superb. From the evolution of Kenji from a greedy drunk turned siege master ally, or Norio from a reserved warrior Monk to a revered guardian of the masses, or or the main character himself, Jin Sakai, from an honorable samurai forced to defend his homeland with any means necessary by abandoning his samurai honor code. Some of these reviews have said stuff along the lines of "the game seems to FORCE you to play as the Ghost" and that "well we want to play as honorable samurai and we don't have the option." That is not the point of the game. The point is that Jin is abandoning his honor code in order to save his home...he is willing to do whatever it takes to achieve this goal of killing the Khan and driving the Mongols away...including vile and cruel methods of warfare. He even addresses his own flaws throughout the game, and if people missed this then that's on them. -World: The game world was fantastically put together. Gotta lvoe seeing reviews that give a low score (cough cough game journalists) because it is an open world game when they explicitly state in their review that they are not a fan of open world games. Rest assured, the world is masterfully crafted. The setting is gorgeous, and the graphics alone are a fantastic way to wrap up what is effectively the end of the PS4 era. -Story: I cannot put into words how amazing I felt the story was. Simply put, play it for yourself and experience it, because it is just that: an experience like none other. Don't let negative reviews draw you down. There is a reason the average score from users is as high as it is. Considering that there isn't much competition this year, I'd say that Ghost of Tsushima is almost a guaranteed lock for game of the year. It is not only one of the best exclusives that PS4 has to offer, but, in my humble opinion, one of the best exclusives that a PlayStation console has ever seen...and easily in my top 5 favorite games of all time.
A very wonderful game where the overall experience and satisfaction received from the game is just as great as the gameplay itself. It is more than just a 3rd person open world game where you just fight NPCs and gather collectibles. The game feels like time, effort, and thoughts have been put for all aspects of the game from the scenery, map, combat, all they way to the story itself. An overall wonderful game which in my personal opinion is worth buying
Pros: + beautiful presentation + relaxing world traversal + simple yet engaging combat + wind as compass works well + amazingly optimized for ps4 + clean ui Cons: - lacks a climbing mechanic - no japanese lip sync - no z-targeting
Achei o jogo incrível, cheio de detalhes e com um cenário de encher os olhos, pena que a história não é tão boa assim e nem tão longa. Na minha opinião deveria ter muito mais atividades no mapa, pois após a platina já não tem mais nada pra se fazer. Ansioso para receber a notícia de um próximo GOT.

Most enjoyable game I played this uear and I played all new games. It is a 9-9.5 game easy so I give a 10 just to show that 83 from critics is unfair. Gamespot scores are **** by the way , it gives some mediocre games so easy high scores and it does not have for thr good games left any.


This game is great. Game of the year for me. It’s beautiful and the story is amazing. Compelling characters who you care about and a very well deserved emotional ending. Gameplay can be better in some areas but that’s why I’m excited for a sequel.
Fantastic game, definite contender for GOTY 2020. So much to do, amazing gameplay, story, and surprising customization. The game will keep you coming back until you get the platinum trophy. One of the most beautiful game worlds I have ever seen.
Buy it now! Don't think! You will enjoy every moment of it. The world design is second to none. I rarely used my horse to travel from one area to another in this case because I couldn't get enough of the beauty of the world that sucker punch has built.I took out time to take snaps of this world, something that I've never done before in any game I've played. The combat is snappy and the controls are responsive. On hard difficulty the fight against the bosses is reminiscent of a souls like game. The degree of deferrence and respect that characters adderess each other with really made me wish that I was living in Japan. A 10 on 10 without a doubt. Go buy it!!
Буду писать все кратко: 1. Невероятно красивый открытый мир, заходил в фоторежим каждые 5-10 минут игры(10/10) 2. Боевка не сложная(кроме высокого уровня сложности), но интересная и имеет много элементов(10/10) 3. Техническая часть - игра хороша, но только на фоне себя. Качество лицевых анимацией и прочего на игру 2020 года не тянет. (8/10) 4 Сюжет не буду расписывать, дабы без спойлеров -(9/10)
This is the most beautiful game I have ever played the perfect swan song for the PS4! Story and gameplay are amazing but the sheer visuals will have me coming back and taking pictures for years to come which is something I don't do that often! Next gen has their work cut out to top this!



An excellent game with minor flaws, but having a breathtaking open world, immersive story and amazing combat, this firmly cements Ghost of Tsushima as one of my favorite PS4 exclusives ever!

Une excellente aventure en monde ouvert. Du point de vue du gameplay : Ce jeu ne révolutionne malheureusement pas grand chose, si vous avez joué à Assassin's Creed (AC) Odyssey, vous ne serez pas dépaysé. Néanmoins, le jeu perfectionne de nombreuses mécaniques déjà vues dans ce genre de jeux. Vous allez devoir explorer l'île de Tsushima, libérer de camps et réaliser diverses quêtes pour vous endurcir. Les combats quant à eux sont très sympathiques, nerveux et précis. On regrettera cependant le manque d'un verrouillage caméra sur les ennemis. Concernant l'histoire : L'histoire est relativement intéressante et bien écrite, bien qu'elle puisse plus vous impliquer que l'histoire d'un AC, elle reste néanmoins moins impactante que celle de The Witcher 3, pour rester dans la même catégorie de jeux. Ce n'est ici pas le point fort, elle sert principalement de faire-valoir à l'aventure qui vous attend. Jin Sakai, le héro, est cependant assez attachant. De plus, le doublage japonais permet d'améliorer l'immersion, en plus d'être de très bonne qualité. Enfin, graphiquement : C'est le point fort du jeu. Tout d'abord, par graphiquement il faut entendre "technique, ambiance et game design". Le jeu se démarque complètement de ses concurrents en proposant un style graphique qui lui est propre, ainsi qu'une ambiance d'un japon féodal extrêmement réussi et convaincant. Tout cela profitant d'une des meilleures technique de notre génération, le jeu proposant des paysages à couper le souffle. Le jeu est à la fois onirique, épique, nerveux et reposant. Concernant le game design, le studio a réussi à donner une identité propre, pour Ghost of Tsushima, à de nombreuses mécaniques que l'on retrouve dans d'autres jeux. Sans proposer un gameplay révolutionnaire et possédant une histoire relativement subsidiaire, le jeu permet tout de même de proposer une aventure originale et de toute beauté. Vous vous perdrez dans ces forêts aux multiples couleurs pour finalement vous arrêter quelques secondes devant un paysage magnifique, tout ce la bercé par une bande sonore extrêmement réussie et cohérente.

Sucker Punch has created a game that draws inspiration from many of its open-world RPG predecessors - and rather than seem like a watered down version of those titles, it creates its own unique identity. The game surprised me in many ways, from its beautiful environments, surprisingly solid story, and lifelike open world. This game is truly a love letter to the latest generation of the Playstation, and an amazing look forward of what's to come. PROS Graphics - Beautiful landscapes and scenery Story - A seemingly generic tale that was thoroughly entertaining Combat - One of the main draws to the game, and it did not disappoint, with the variety of tactics one can use Open World - Many things to do in the large, lifelike island of Tsushima CONS Choppiness - The game is, at parts, rough around the edges. It's not usually distracting, but can be noticeable at times Repetition - As with many open world games, repetition can lead to tedium. Be sure to diversify the open world activities that you do Overall, I rate the game a 9 out of 10 and would consider it along the lines of a masterpiece. It's a top 10 open world game in my book and I would absolutely recommend it to everyone.
Замечательная игра! Интересный сюжет. Открытый мир. Колоритные и харизматичные персонажи.


Great game, I recently finished the game and want to share my thoughts about it. Pros: First of all the world is amazing. The vibrant colours the falling leaves, the different landscapes etc. I was riding my horse and would be like wow the landscape looks so beautiful! It has been a while since a game made me actually stop and just enjoy the landscape. The combat is terrific. I really really enjoyed the combat. You have several ways of fighting and multiple tools to your disposal. I actually used nearly every tool available. Mixing it up was great fun. And you get more badass. It was a great feeling getting stronger unlocking new skills etc. The waypoint system with the gushing wind was a pleasant surprise. I actually really liked it. Same with the foxes en birds. It kept me immersed in the world. Collectables and exploring was nice as well. nothing really new here but its a working formula. I do have to say changing my gear and unlocking new ones was great fun. I am currently working on collecting every single thing possible in the game. Last but not least the story. I actually thought the story was very good. Some unexpected things happened which really surprised me. I didn't expect to get so immersed in the story! Cons: A bit more interaction with the world would of been nice. Although i really enjoyed the open world every now and then it did feel a bit empty. Even adding a couple more different animals might of made a whole lot of difference (for me at least). The dialogue every now and then was very similar. It would have been nice to have more diversity. After a while it annoyed me every now and then. Same with the opening when dueling. It was kinda slow and i would be like c'mon just let me fight. These are all very minor cons. Definitely not deal breakers as i rated the game 10/10 still. Everything put together i really enjoyed ghost of tsushima. It's definitely worth a 10 in my opinion. I spend many many hours on it and it was great fun.
one of the best games of this generation and one of the best ps4 exclusives among God Of War and Spiderman. great story. great story telling. great characters and frankly washed away last of us part 2's dissapointment from my mind



Amazing game with stunning visuals and with an amazing combat.So much to do, so much to see. The story is very good and the way point system ( following the wind) is such a unique and well crafted mechanic that it only makes the game shine even more. I recommend you play this game. You won't regret it.


One of the best games I have ever played. My jaw was on the floor most of the game, and choking back tears during other parts. Bravo Sucker Punch! /cheer

The game is an absolute masterpiece, one of the best things I have ever played. It manages to bring back the feeling of the original Assassin's Creed games, with the combination of several elements of many other iconic games. No doubt this game shows the combination of every best gaming elements in a single experience with excellence. Something we should definetly see more often. Crazy in love with this game lmfao
We have been waiting for a Assassin's Crees un the feudal Japan for a decade, I assume that Sucker Punch indenting the need and delivers a game that surpass most of the AC mechanics and the story line it's captivating. A triumph for the that last phase of the PS4.
A bloody great game. With a great story, Side quest that you care about, exploration is rewarding. **** Stunning Visuals. The Combat is great, fluid slicing. Gameplay is great. The wind point is a fantastic way to direct the player without a minimap. The Assassins creed game i have always wanted. Get this game is you have time, money and want to support great singleplayer games.
This has been the game I've been waiting for and the very first (probably last) PS4 game that I worked to get platinum for. Graphic is amazing, gameplay is easy to get too but takes time to master, sound is superb, and the story/pacing is very well-done, while implementing new features in an open-world genre. Can't get enough of this game, and I right away start new game after finishing it. The devs really took their time and really respectful of the source material for this game. The game has tremendous potential and things can only get better from here, and I hope Sucker Punch consider making extra content and franchise out of this game! Definitely a great swan song to PS4 system, and I'm not even selling the game so I can replay this when PS5 comes out.

Es un juego simplemente hermoso, en el cual se ve que existe mucho trabajo gráfico detrás y un muy buen desarrollo el sistema de peleas dentro del juego así también tiene una banda sonora que te dejara con la boca abierta.
it's a masterpiece and anyone give under 9.0 has no idea of gaming industry, really I like it and the way of how they make a Japanese game with this great detail even they are an American studio i really congrats them for this masterpiece
This game it's amazing, all the island is really beautiful and it's really funny and really enjoyable to explore. The combat system it's really funny. I highly reccomend this game.

incredible game, better experience and good story, incredible movement and complete the development of the main character is incredible and very explanatory, well worth the money paid in the game

It's not perfect, but it's too good not to be a 10. The combat alone got my heart racing and my excitement through the roof. Add to that a bunch of great fixes and alterations to open world tropes and... 10/10.
Truly an amazing game, and possibly the start of an amazing series. The game's size and scale is enough to make it a masterpiece. The easy traveling and random events make the game a lot less boring than most other open world games. The fighting mechanics aren't the best you'll ever see, but the variety of moves, abilities, skills and fighting styles you learn are unmatched. The story is amazing and unless you weren't following it, you will be emotional at a lot of moments. You can EASILY get lost in the world with what feels like endless things to do. The game focuses on how YOU play, stealthy; swords-swinging; etc. The customization isn't bad by any means, with most pieces of armor and clothing dealing different abilities and skills to assist you in your playstyle and how you travel across the terrain. The game is easily an 8 for most players, but to stand up to a lot of open world games such as RDR2, GTA, Batman Arkham and others, its truly a masterpiece in itself and deserves no less than an 8.
Amazing & satisfying Stealth & Combat system. Next Gen engine make graphics truly incredible, beautiful open world with plenty of open world activities. Rewarding Side quest. Pretty good Customization. Pretty good story with great unique characters. Side mission are just as fun as main story missions. All covered by Incredible Music. Feels like a PS5 game on PS4. All that with No micro transactions. No loot boxes. Game of the Year
Nota 9,5 (Mais pra 10 do que pra 9) - Prós: Jogo Muito Bom! Loading bem curtos e Viagens Rápidas realmente bem rápidas; Contém Recursos que incentivam a Busca por Colecionáveis, Troféus e Conclusão de 100% do Jogo e também a Coleta de Recursos para Upgrades das Armas e Itens; Uma Árvore de Habilidades bem Interessante; Ambientação Extremamente Sensacional; Gameplay muito bom com ataques bem Variados; Um Gráfico Excelente; A História que tinha de tudo pra ser um Ponto fraco é Boa e Grande o Suficiente para não se tornar Maçante; A Dublagem em PT-BR é muito boa; Jogo bem parecido com The Witcher 3, mas com menos Bugs; Um dos Melhores Jogos do PlayStation 4! - Contras: Bem Repetitivo, você sabe exatamente o que fazer na maioria das Secundárias (que são "OK" quando se tratam dos personagens secundários, mas bem fraquinhas quando são moradores comuns da Ilha); A Falta de Expressão dos Personagens incomoda bastante por se tratar de um jogo de 2020 e dá azar por também ser lançado logo após The Last of Us Parte II, poderia ser bem melhor. Pra mim é o maior Ponto Fraco do Jogo! - Resumo: Um Dos Melhores Jogos da Geração; Concorrente ao Jogo do Ano de 2020; Merece receber uma Continuação ou se Tornar uma Franquia como Assassin's Creed (Utilizando as Ferramentas mesmo com Histórias Diferentes); A Ambientação, Variedade de Itens e Jogabilidade são o Ponto Forte, enquanto a Falta de Expressão e Repetição de Missões Secundárias são o Ponto Fraco.
If you're reading these reviews, you've no doubt heard about the visuals of this game. Let's just start there. They're not the most perfect, but there is no other game that 2/3 of the way through it, I'm going to jog from one destination to the next. It is just so beautifully done, it made me want to take my time and take it in. I really get the feeling that Sucker Punch just wanted to make the game fun. While there are few gameplay features you have to wait a while to see, there are so many that you can enjoy right away. You can put your technique points almost anywhere you want. Also, I really like the story. And the side quests really feel like you're doing something of importance. You're trying to build an army. The only real fetch quests literally took a less than a minute to do. You're not looking all over the map for something someone wants. While the AI is not very intelligent, it puts up a fight once they find you. I really enjoyed this game.
So many great things to say about Ghost. Visually beautiful. I haven't had so many "wow" moments where I just stopped what I was doing to look around before Ghost. Lots of variability in combat approaches and cool stylistic changes for each sword stance. Episodic quests where each has a unique little twist. The ending was beautiful. The way they developed the feelings and motivations of Jin and Lord Shimura really got to me in the end.

A Fun Game With an Open World Concept! If you like upgrading, and unlocking new items and different moves throughout the game to keep it fresh the whole time . this has that!
Arguably the best combat system and art direction in the generation. This is a must buy for any PS4 owner. I have a feeling Sucker Punch is going to overtake Naughty Dog as the premier game studio for Sony.

This game is absolutely incredible, happily a 9.5/10, the landscapes are absolutely stunning even on a base PS4 where I was playing, the characters are extremely well written and wrapped up in a story which not only rings true with the spirit of the samurai but tells an epic tale along the way of family, duty and loyalty to ones self and country. my only gripe with the game was the ladders which I would often spend about 5-10 seconds walking around before climbing up, this broke immersion a few times and could definitely be improved but the way I see it, when you come out of a game this grand in scale and the biggest complaint you can have is the ladders, who can really complain, definitely a must play for any PlayStation owner and if you’re an avid samurai fan or Japanese martial artist like myself, it’s honestly worth picking up a system for (even if you might be better waiting and playing it on a ps5 to get the best bang for your buck) Amazing job Suckerpunch!
Очень крутая игра,прошёл с большим удовольствием.Бойовка на высшем уровне,сюжет немного затянут,но достаточно интересный,концовка просто шикарная.

As a long time Kurosawa fan as well as open world game geek, I was very interested in this game. However, I just don't like console games. But the reviews and the sample game play on YouTube forced my hand and I bought the game. I'm extremely glad of that decision. GoT hits my Samurai genre fan heart square in the middle, and with it's huge open world the game provides the epic scale I have wanted in this kind of game for a very long time. Like many Samurai movies the basic story isn't going to win many awards, but the characters, situations, combat mechanics and cinematic visuals all come together to make a truly memorable experience. I've loved every minute of the game which is saying a lot. In comparison I've tried finishing The Witcher 3 for several months, but I just find myself not willing to play more than an hour or so at a time. Then I take days or even weeks to convince myself to play again. Not so with GoT. I've been playing sessions as much as 10 hours with only short breaks, and I'm thinking of what I want to do in my next session as soon as I've stopped playing. I can't wait to get back. I've played about 30 hours and might be one third of the way through. Exceptional game. Definitely on my GOTY ballot.

Awesome story with interesting characters, a beautiful world where you can change the weather with your flute, I/we can play as a ghost or as a honorable samurai, the choice is mine/ours, there is tons of things to do outside the main story and we can jump in and out of the main story when we want to, (except for 3 story missions in a row in act 2). Sucker Punch did a great work with this game, I love every minute of it!
I loved this game. The graphics are amazing, the sound design is beautiful, the characters look fantastic, and the voice acting is great. Combat can be a little hard and unforgiving, especially on lethal difficulty, but still fun to cut down wave after wave of enemies. Trying to climb cliffs and latters can be a little annoying at times, but it doesn't break the game in anyway. This game is worth buying and playing.
Very pleasant game to play. For me it feels something between Assassins Creed, Far Cry and Mad Max but make things better and more fun in those games. Mostly because of better fight mechanic. Taking out outposts is somehow more fun than in FC and AC and too much horse riding is compensated with a lot of fast travel stations. Refreshing and fun in days where good games become very rare!

hayatımda gördüğüm gerek teması gerek açık dünyası olarak manzarasını izlemeye doyamadığım en güzel oyundu aksiyon tarafında olan iş müthiş karakter anlatımları mükemmel ayrıca ana karakter çok iyi sevdiğim bir konuda bu kadar iyi bir oyun çıkması beni çok mutlu etti last of us 2 gibi bir balon yerine benim yılın oyunu olarak gördüğüm oyun budur kesinlikle hak ediyor her şeyi ile inanılmaz olağanüstü keşfetmeye oynayamaya doyamadım oyunu herkese tavsiye ediyorum umarım yılın oyunu olur teşekkürler
Definitely a great game. While it is possible to get sidetracked doing smaller quests, the story does eventually pick up in a gripping ending. What I liked most about the game is it treats not the battle with the khan as the ending, but the choice that Jin makes. It is indeed difficult to make that choice than to fight hordes of mongols.
Great game from top to bottom. I have had a couple weird moments where the game will glitch a little, and the face off mode can get a little repetitive. I would recommend playing in Japanese with your personal language in subtitles. Overall, its just a great game. Props to Sony, awesome way to send off the PS4
Simplemente el mejor juego del año. A nivel visual es increíble, además de que la jugabilidad es adictiva. Tenía mucho tiempo que no disfrutaba hacer las misiones secundarias de un juego.

Absolute beautiful game! I haven't been that invested in a game in a LOOONG time . The combat is immense and fluent . Every strike with the sword seems so real and perfect The environments are gorgeous and everything is worth exploring Characters are very likeable especially the side quest characters. Nice verity are tools and armour, not too much that it would make you feel overwhelmed with equipment. Each piece of equipment comes in handy during whatever circumstance the player is in. The game is without its bugs but that comes hand in hand with most games these days and i'm sure they will be patched eventually. All in all this is probably the best game i'v played in years and i'd recommend it to anyone .
This game is such an amazing swan song to the ps4. Congrats to sucker punch. The time and effort they must had put in to completely bail this. Graphics are “mind blowing” with realistic scenery and particles , oh man the particles. Lighting and weather etc are 10/10. Story amazing and combat.....oh boy, this every very good. Just everything about the game feels like “real” people have played it and said “ maybe could you do this to improve it “ or “ I’d like it if you could do this” and then sucker punch went and actually listened to the people. A marvel of a game.


I really enjoy this game I don't know why but I'm 30 years old and I just can't stick to a game.But this game I've stuck with so far and I love it.I'm no giving it a 10 just for the sake of giving it a 10.I'm really enjoying this game a lot hopefully there's a sequel.But we will have to see I still need to beat the game.I haven't enjoyed a game like this in a long time.
The game very good the samurai very good i hope that new part for this game
Great game, done Platinum. I'm not a fan of open world, but this world... Is just amazing, nothing compares to it in any game. The colours, the cinematic approach, the feel of every step is making you want to spend more time in this world! I'm sad that I have done almost everything, waiting for the New Game+ to walk the island of Tsushima again. The game is not perfect, but for me it's the best open world game out there. The story is great, charecters are amazing, side quest (major ones) are involving and greatly written. Combat mechanics ruined other games for me by being so f**** great. I am a fan of the theme (old Japan) thus this game for me is THE game that is better then Witcher 3!
The graphics are absolutely incredible. I love the design of how the world is your UI, hope more games utilize this idea. Exploration is fun but tedious. There isn't a lot of fun to be had when just traveling place to place. But the biggest issue is the combat. It feels too easy on normal and unfair on hard. Part of this is the incredibly strict timing windows on things like parries and dodges. It's so small in some instances I think my TV's normal input lag is enough to make it impossible to react to, it must be predicted. I also really hate that dodge is circle+left stick instead of just circle. If you just press circle Jin goes into a stance where he's "ready" to dodge, but this just creates an extra step and more moving parts to go wrong. Overall, the game is really good and well polished, but I just wasn't having any fun by the end.

Looks and feels amazing. 10/10. Refreshing take on the open-world genre. I really like the fact there is no "minimap and arrows", and that you actually have to pay attention to the envoirment.
One of the best open world games I've played, very organic and well-built side quests. However, some choices in the rhythm of the narrative and the lack of technical polish in some aspects means that the game deserves to keep the note in the 80's ... still another excellent Sony exclusive, with the potential to compete for GOTY in a better worked sequence!
For anyone who loves a good story and a beautiful open world that is your playground. You need to play this game it’s a must. Hats off to Sucker Punch! Ghost Of Tsushima is a modern day masterpiece
Sucker Punch's latest game is a bold, badass, breath of fresh air that is a final AAA PS4 exclusive (for now) but does it deliver? Absolutely. A vast world designed for curiosity and exploring is a great start for any single player game, and don't worry about the visuals because it's got some of the best visuals ever for a game. although you will see a few dips in quality and framerate on the base PS4 it still looks and plays just fine. My biggest overall flaw with the game would have to be some of the stealth missions, they became annoying at times and took away from the otherwise great pace of the game. I'm not allowed to talk spoilers however I'm still blown away by those final fights, the game does something that isn't utilized in many other games for a final fight and although it's an emotionally tough fight, it's worth it. If the last of us 2 was like Thanos, an amazing game making you feel evil, this is like Thor, an amazing game making you feel like a hero. GOT is a better game than the entire Assassins Creed series and Assassins Creed fans should feel right at home giving it a playthrough. Overall, Sucker punch did a wonderful job and Sony got a great final exclusive for one of the best consoles ever. I'd give it a 91/100 and I sure hope the ps5 gets a 60fps version and a sequel one day.



Suggestion for casual gamers : - Highly recommended (for general gamers, i fall into that category) - MUST PLAY, a MUST REQUIREMENT (for those who are samurai manga fans, samurai movie fans) *TLDR (No Spoilers)* First of all, i am a very casual gamer, there are no Platinum or Gold trophies in my collection. I play any game to get my mind away from things, relax, and immerse into the larger than life experience. "Ghost of Tsushima" felt like a breath of fresh air in the time of sequels after sequels. - Is the gameplay revolutionary?-NO! - Is the story is completely unimaginable?-NO!! - is the game Bug free?-NO! - is the game fun to play?-YES!! - Are the game characters interesting?-YES; - Are the game characters likable?-mostly Yes, it may and will vary. - Is the Katana/Samurai Sword combat any good?-I FREAKING LOVED IT - Is the Gameworld Nice?-OH BOY, HELL YEAH!!!!. - Will this game help to formulate a solution to fight real-world socio-political issues which are currently plagued the world?- NO, of course not, it is a game, for the solution you need to study in proper fields, like politics, sociology, psychology, history, biology, etc. Lots of people are saying it is not at all like Assassins Creed. BUT i think it is not entirely true, the formula in many ways based on AC series but GOT fused that mechanic very very nicely with its gameplay. GOT used various aspects from various successful open-world games, and that is not a bad thing at all. It is a big game, you can make it shorter if you want BUT the gameworld will gently push you, like a gentle breeze (Pun intended) to do the side quests, and the game will treat the player fairly to do that as well. As for me, i did not feel bored at all by doing the side quests, and the game environment played a major part in that. There are some cons off course, but that would be knit-picking in the grand scheme of things, BUT sometimes the combat camera may infuriate the players a bit (it did to me), as the combat is largely based on time windows. I wanted to give the game rating a 8.5, but it will be unfair if i rate it only 8, But as my own experience i think it will not be unfair to rate it 9 as this game got me stuck to it for all those hours. and after finishing the story will dive back into it again to complete some of the remaining side quests and hidden areas of the third act.
Beautiful features and stunning story, tracing back to historical Japanese culture... must say Its great to learn the culture of samurai vs mongols, personally who needs LOU2 lool
This is the game ,which many gamers was waiting for 1.so beautiful so immersive, 2.the gameplay is inasne,satisfying,and challenging for even the best players on lethal difficulty 3.many new ideas in an operworld game which makes it even more amazing 4.uses the max power and capability on ps4 to give us the best experience on current gen 5.smart move by sucker punch by making the first 2 map extremly great and the 3rd map a little bit less atractive, i mean who would want to see 3 mid quality map instead of 2 gorgeous and extremly beautiful locations and 1 mid-low range at the end 6.very few little bugs , not even worth mentioning 7.actual feeling of a samurai in lovely japan 8.soundtracks amazing 9. i mean hell this studio is Perfect this is the game i always wanted to see in assassins creed series but never did .so thank you sucker punch for making it happen

This is a truly masterpiece. No many games left me something inside. This succeed in his intent. Grest story, great combats, great characters, graphic astonishing. Ana amzing game. Thank you Suckerpunch!

The game is really fun and beautiful and there is much to explore. It really doesn’t do much to stand out though, in terms of narrative and gameplay. Stance switching is cool but it’s already been done before. The gameplay is almost too easy at times, though, and that’s my problem with it. If you want a challenge DON’T turn it up to lethal and don’t upgrade your sword. Lethal almost completely defeats the purpose of upgrading and investing in stance skills, charms, and combos for your sword, so I suggest playing on hard. Once you stagger them on lethal, they’re done. Also, the lighting is horrible and blinding, at parts (pause screen especially). The duels are the only parts that actually challenged me. This isn’t to say it’s a blast to play and has a decent story. The side missions all feel like they matter and give you insight on the bigger picture of how this invasion affected everyone. The historical accuracy and timeline of this game is really cool. There’s so many moments where I just take in the immaculate beauty and take multiple screenshots. The photo mode is very very good. This game is what Assassin’s creed wishes it was. I really think it’s worth the full price and would suggest this to any player, just don’t go into it thinking you’re going to get a big challenge.
The game is gorgeous and fills you with a sense of adventure and inspiration. There are some tedious, and repetitive moments, but overall a very enjoyable experience.
Beautiful game. Game of the Year material. Ghost of tsushima is not just a game, it's an art.


Best game of 2020 so far... The story is so well written, the sidecharacters is some one that u really want to follow. The graphics is the most beautiful on a ps4 to date. I Will rum this till i get 100% - and wait for cyberpunk 2077



Ghost of tsu is a very unique game that grabs minor inspiration from games of the past ... game play is and combat is what you would expect if you were wielding a katana .. combat is fast pace and pretty realistic .. it offers a fair challenge .. ultimately the game is big free I did notice one or two of them .. and they are really not ground breaking .. this is the reason I give the game a nine .. the dead zone on the analog seems very sensitive .. just breathing on the controller Jin will move .. I purposefully bought two controllers to test of it was my controller or the game and it is the game ... it is definitely will not ruin your experience this game is absolutely gorgeous game play is. Phenomenal definitely buy this game
Truly an amazing and thrilling game, Easily the most beautiful game on the Playstation 4. This game is a true masterclass in open world games with the combination of combat, exploration and story. There's simply never a dull moment be it cutting down armies of enemy mongols or just exploring the beautiful open world. Every single area of the world is filled to the brim with side quests, collectibles and challenges, all while sucking you into its gorgeous environment. This is a must buy that any ps4 owner should have on their shelf or in their hard drives. Do yourself the favor and get it today, you will not regret it.
Coming from an all around weeb, this game is amazing. In recent times the Japanese media and eastern media has done a very well job at making it in the western culture. Anime is on the rise like never before, friends of mine that have never heard of anime are getting into it to see what all the hype is about. And the friends that had or do watch anime are getting into manga and the such. I remember discovering anime when I was in the third grade and after watching so many ninja and samurai shows and thinking, “Man, I really wish there was a game I could play that kinda has stuff like this.” But at the time, there weren’t. Ghost of Tsushima has given me what I’ve wanted for so many years. Not all the flashy stuff with spells and jutsus like naruto or bleach, but a more simplistic down to earth experience that I could wrap my head around. A samurai in japan based on an era in which enemies are invading your home and you throw everything you have to drive them away, even at the cost of your honor and the lives of those you love, **** epic. Being a weeb heightened my want for something that I could call a Japanese experience, and this gane delivered. Objectively this game is also very fun, while the only downside for me is that some missions might get repetitive from time to time. The combat is fun and interactive having to doge arrows, attempting perfect parry’s and dodges. The story is entertaining and not at all boring. The open world is fun and immersive. And to top it all off, the game is absolutely stunning to the eyes, seriously I highly recommend the game.
Best game in Japanese setting. Great plot and atmosphere. You're immersed in it and you can't tear yourself away. It's not about good and evil, it's about honor.
Absolutely wonderful game. Personally, I found the story/narrative very enjoyable with many amazing moments and memorable characters. With many intense, many funny, and many sad scenes, the game feels complete and refreshing. The stealth mechanics are nothing special, but they get the job done. The gameplay is top notch. Don't expect sekiro type depth, but compared to other open world games it feels very responsive and satisfying with many different weapons and abilities to keep you engaged and to stay fresh every fight.
Лучшее мужское приключение в этом поколении консолей! Отличная локализация, легкая и приятная платина. P.S: после полного прохождения значимость данной игры для игровой индустрии в общем - поднялась в разы!
I have never played a game that has immersed me so deeply into the story. The connection I grew to the characters was something more than other games I have played. Excellent game, excellent story. Highly recommend.
The game is beautiful, combat is fluid and there's a lot to do in the game from random mongol encounters to different activities you can do If i can rate this game more than a 10 i would

The game is Sony’s 2nd best I’ve ever played. The only game that rivals this in a sense of story, music and graphics is God of War. It’s not even close. Those two games are by far and away PlayStation’s best work. This was an absolutely magnificent game. From start to finish, it is jaw dropping. The story is amazing and the scenery is beyond gorgeous. The colors used in this game are incredible. I played it on my PS4 Pro with a 4K UHD Samsung TV and my goodness it didn’t disappoint. I did everything the game had to offer and spent probably around 50-60 hours in game. Each time I sat down for a session the game just continued to provide jaw dropping moments and graphics. The music was also another one of my favorites. It was just all around wonderful. This is also coming from an Xbox person who will be getting a Series X at launch. I can only dream one day Xbox could make such a remarkable first party game as this. It will be a tragedy if this game doesn’t win game of the year. I played and beat LOU2 as well, but this game imo is better in almost every regard. It’s a shame there are not more games like this out there. This is what Assassins Creed dreams to be and maybe one day it might, but for now Ghost of Tsushima is in a class that it only shares with GoW. If you’re looking to close the current console chapter out, do so by playing this game, you won’t regret it. It was the icing on the cake and a beautiful way to send PlayStation 4, off into the sunset. I’m almost positive if you appreciate games this one will not disappoint. It makes my top 5 current gen games of all-time! Hats off to Sucker Punch and bravo. An instant classic and should be loved by many. Cheers!
What a beautiful game! While character models or animations are not best of the class, world design and scenery are beyond beautiful. Just exploring this gameworld is a huge joy. The story is simple, but effective with characters you slowly start to care about. Even the open world stuf isn't too tedious. There are some open world tropes and filler moments, but overall it's fine. But the highest praise has to go to the combat system. Switching stances, using all your tools and getting into "the flow" just fells and looks amazing. Oh, and don't forget the load times! How did they pull this off? Amazing!
An extremely amazing truimph!An exquisite world, a very nice story, well-done characterizations, flexible gameplay and a very well-designed combat system make the game one of the bests among open-worlds we have seen in years. The in-game world is so beatiful and dynamic you'd never get tired exploring and wandering around. Nevertheless, the game has some technical issues specially when going in stealth like repetitive stealth kill animations. But the issues are not so anoying and you can just ignore them in many cases. In conclusion, Ghost of Tsushims has been one of the greatest open-world games I have experienced so far. 9/10 it proudly deserves.
#PLATINUM #GhostofTsushima SPOILER FREE REVIEW Ive not enjoyed a game this much since Horizon Zero dawn and witcher 3 wilf hunt Ghost of Tsushima is visually beautiful, extremely well researched and written, and keeps you hooked as the story progresses. It just gets better and better the longer you play. The narrative is compelling and interesting, the side quests are equally interesting unlike so many games with repetitive, tiresome quests just to keep the player busy. The fighting is very satisfying and ever evolving so it never turns stagnant and becomes repetitive. The island of Tsushima is vast and beautifully diverse with lots of open world exploring to be done. There's lots of hidden little things, for example, following the yellow birds to find hidden points of interest/items there's so much for the player to do and not to mention the deep dive into ancient Japanese culture. The art of the Haiku, honour and the battle between what was taught and what needs to be done in the face if overwhelming force. Ghost of Tsushima has a great photo mode to capture the stunning beauty of the Island. I love this game, it has blown me away and exceeded my expectations. Thanks Sucker Punch you made something great. 10/10 game and highly deserving and recommended


I really really enjoyed Ghost of Tsushima!!!! The story, the acting, the environment and the combat are brilliant. I hope the game will also come out for the pc :D I want to see everything in 100fps with max details

Really ambitious game, but yes. It is really fun and immersive to play it, and yes the story is good so we do not see time going while playing the game. Beautiful graphics. I'll leave a 9/10 for this masterpiece
For me this game was breathtaking a fresh breath of the felling of freedom no doubt one of the prettiest games out there on the ps4 it deserves all of the praise
I love this game.I didin't even knew I need it in my life and now I can't wait to see another Succer Punch production. While GoT is not perfect, it's still a great game. Perfect PS4 excluvise to bid farewell to current generation of consols.
The art direction of this game is top notch, I understand how they were able to make the game as beautiful as it is. I expected more from the cinematography but it's still above average. Combat without a lock on is odd and frustrating at times but they got it to work, combat system overall is good. Stealth could use a bit of work, the enemies' detection, but it's all really good. I wouldn't call this a Japanese Assassin's Creed at all, it's Ghost of Tsushima
As an Xbox fanboy, I have to say this game is amazing. It's everything you want in an open-world game. it's enjoyable, easy to play, deep secrets and so much more. If you played Last of Us 2 and need a palate cleanser, and have the urge to actually play a fun game, spend your money on this.

A fantastic game wit ha beautiful world amazing characters and a story that will leave you conflicted. Really good. those load times are insane too 4 seconds.
Really good game, for those who compare this to assassins creed, you don't know anything. This game is way better than a boring generic AC. graphics are not amazing as they first appeared in the commercials but still very good. Storytelling is nice. The environment is excellent, you really feel like a samurai in the Japanese middle age. The gameplay is very nice too, a bit disturbing at the beginning with the camera which is slightly different than usual, but within the game, we adapt. The soundtrack is perfect, the Japanese voices are great. The custom of the main character is really cool too. There aren't massive issues. Annexe quests are a bit repetitive at some point. I was a bit disappointed with certain other aspects like when there is body on the floor, your feet pass trough it like nothing, you are not on the body, you are in the body, problem is that it happens 100% of the time like they didn't pay attention to that. Or when you throw an arrow on something like a tree or whatever, you're never going to fund it stick into something, it just disappears. Another thing is that you pass literally trough every bamboo forest like if there isn't anything, impossible to cut the bamboo with your katana or anything. Small thing but it breaks a bit the immersion and makes the game unperfect, it is those tiny things that make the difference between a really good game and a masterclass.
Amazing / Brilliant Game. Great original story that isn't a sequel or remake. The story makes you feel like you are a part of it and you get hooked on what's going to happen next. You can also do it at your own pace, theres plenty of side quests without feeling like its over saturated.. i never felt like i was grinding to progress further - it felt like a journey. Scenery is captivating and gorgeous - Samurai fights feel authentic with a badass twist (skills / stances etc) 10/10. Final sendoff for the PS4.
I thoroughly enjoyed Ghost of Tsushima, I believe that being the final PS4 exclusive it had a lot to live up to especially following in the steps of games like Horizon: Zero Dawn, The Last of Us, etc. Games notorious for being incredible exclusives that both tell a great story, in addition to making the best of the technology at the time. Ghost of Tsushima Lives up to these predecesores by telling a story that constantly kept me engaged and was truly striking when it came to the visuals which was highlighted in the photo mode- a mostly unnoted feature in most other games, but that displayed the sheer beauty and depth of the world Suckerpunch has created. The reason I didn't give the game a ten was due to primarily technical issues- many of which could easily be fixed via an update. the biggest issue being the camera making hard to see the enemy at times which a thing that you especially notice in a game like this which is contingent on seeing the enemy's moves and learning to use that against them. For a dlc, which I think should really be considered by suckerpunch, I would love to see more story on Tomoe, or something with the nearby island of Iki as it seems to be a great way to do something a bit different and introduce the character to places they haven't been to. Along with this I and many would agree that mythic tales were undoubtedly a highlight of the game and so would love to see some more content regarding that. overall this has been one of my favourite open world games and one of the best PS4 exclusives I have played in a while. I would love to see a sequel to this game in a different setting- perhaps Kyoto, and hope suckerpunch stickwith this type of game for the future. Incredible game!
This game is brilliant probably the prettiest and most eye catching ps4 exclusive I’ve played since the consoles launch. Given I am a bit biased because I love Japanese history And I loved learning about the Mongrel invasion of Japan so that did boost my rating a bit. But the combat is great , it manages too be simple too learn but challenging at the same time but not too challenging where you think it’s unfair. Lots of customization options for you’re character , the most beautiful open world I’ve ever seen in gaming. Granted since it’s in Japan I am a bit biased because I just love games set in the country and live the history behind it but that doesn’t subtract that this is a masterpiece. combat is excellent ,Complex but easy too learn while also being challenging enough so that you can’t just blow through the game. But be warned their will be some challenge so if you don’t like games that are kinda difficult then maybe this isn’t for you. Characters are well voice acted and excellently written , plenty of content and many of side quests Too keep you busy. It’s 10/10 for me and and the best way end off a console generation
The game is so fun I actually do side quests (which I never do ever), the one problem I'm having with it is that there are too many side quests, in a little overwhelmed. That said, this may be my favorite PS4 game to date.
This game is simply breathtaking,from the graphics,the deep story and dozens of hours to play.The gameplay alone is addicting and will make it very hard to put down;Simply put this game is next gen level and then some.
This game is amazing! I have had it over a week now and cant put it down. I feel myself getting sucked into the game. The graphics are spot on and the environment just pulls you in. The characters area very well done. I have had a few issues with bugs, but they are so minor that it doesn't take away from the game at all. (Bugs I did have Game not loading after death and getting stuck in falling animation) I also felt the heartstrings with they pulled The Never Ending Story out on my butt, with the horse at the beginning of the III act. This is a must buy and i hope to see more great games coming from this company in the future!
This game has totally taken me by surprise! When Ghost of Tsushima was first announced I genuinely didn't care for it. I have never really been interested in Japanese history and have always avoided films based on this topic as I feel there not really my cup of tea. I watched the state of play about this game and thought the gameplay looked boring and uninspiring. Then the game released and got quite good reviews so I checked out a walkthrough of the opening of the game and was surprised by how good it looked, so I took the plunge and brought the game. I am so glad that I did, it is very enjoyable. You play as Jin Sakai the last remaining Samurai after the Mongolians slaughter everybody on the beach at the opening of the game. You are tasked with trying to rescue your uncle who has been captured by the Mongolian leader Khutan Khan. I wont talk about any of the story after this point as I don't want to spoil it, but I can assure you it is gripping throughout. The combat is very solid and a joy to play. It never gets boring parrying enemy attacks and changing between each different combat stance. You unlock a new combat stance after defeating a certain amount of enemy leaders. You can defeat enemies using any stance you prefer, but certain stances are easier for enemies that are wielding a certain weapon, there is a stance for swords, shields, javelin or spears and brutes. It is great to easily switch between while in the middle of a fight. The amount of exploration really adds to the game as well. There are plenty of different collectables to find and they are made easier to find thanks to animals you can follow that will lead you to them or if you where the travellers cloak your controller will vibrate when you are close to a specific type of collectable. The only negatives I can think of are that the stealth is incredibly basic if not the least impressive stealth I have seen from a game in years. Whenever you enter a camp unseen enemies always conveniently have there back turned to you and others are always finding some sort of fascination out of staring at a wall. The stealth does get difficult at times as sometimes it is just a case of working out which guard to take out without alerting any others. Thankfully the combat is so good that it more than makes up for the sub par stealth mechanics. Other slight negatives include getting stuck occasionally when fighting standing on a rock and not being able to roll away to avoid your enemy. The last thing I want to mention is that new mechanics are always being introduced to the game to keep things interesting, so just when you think you have seen all the game has to offer something new comes along to add to the variety. A must play! P.S Make sure you do the bamboo strikes they are incredibly fun.
This game is amazing,beautiful, and thrilling. I wasn't planning on getting it but when I did I was incredibly surprised by how enthralled I was by the game.

The game was overall amazing. The world was fantastic and amazing to just explore and find the shrines or hotsprings. Act 1 is very good in terms of setting up a good foundation, Act 2 expands on Act 1 with good character development and world building. Act 3 is where it kinda gets a little odd and just a bit rushed to just get the game done and over with. But overall very solid game.
Amazing feeling, great combat and great stealth. Felt like that movement and climbing could do with some work but not enough to bring down the score. Played the whole thing in Japanease with English subtitles for full immersion can highly reccomend it!!
I haven't beaten the game yet at this point (I'm still in act 2), but this game is extremely fun! Great combat, awesome story and plenty of other things to do to keep you interested and coming back! Oh, and the art style is very beautiful as well. And this is coming from someone who recently switched to PC gaming and loves it better than Xbox and PlayStation (Started with Xbox 360 then the One then switched to PS4 Pro then PC. Even after experiencing awesome PC specs GoT is still fun to experience)
Brilliant game. Platinum trophy a bit too easy to get and graphics could be better quality. But story was a real treat, gameplay and combat is extremely enjoyable, totally worth the game it is. Here is for hopes of new game plus


This is an amazing game, made by a great company who love and put effort into their titles.Ghost of Tsushima is a one of a kind game. Definitely recommend playing it!

Gostei bastante do jogo, gráficos deslumbrantes, jogabilidade excelente, quando recebi o jogo da Amazon, já tinha um patch que ao jogar, não me deparei com nenhum bug, e explorei todo o jogo pegando todos os colecionáveis e claro o troféu de platina. A nova dificuldade chegou depois que platinei, talvez faça mais um new game na dificuldade mais alta com o filtro Kurosawa ativado. Seria bem vindo uma ou mais DLCs com mais conteúdo.
This game was truly phenomenal. The developers truly put in endless passion and love into creating this masterpiece. One of the biggest wins in playing the game is the immersion. The music is great and brings through so much of the emotion that is hidden behind the mostly emotionless voice acting. The lack of an always visible HUD, especially in an open-world game, is so refreshing. The minimalistic view with the HUD, minimap, and missions are quite unlike other open-world staples. The story is realistic as well as the fact that it is based on a real-life event (the invasion of Japan by the Mongols, not the actual Ghost of Tsushima). The story also ends beautifully,(no spoilers), and it brought me to tears no matter how many times I've seen it. The Critic score underplays how wonderfully this game is... and if you are buying a PS4, then you NEEEEED to get Ghost of Tsushima.
Amazing game! Beautiful graphics, intense story and easily one of my all time favorite PS4 games. Played it on a PS4 pro with a 4K/HDR tv: best graphics I have ever experienced.
One of my favorite games of all times. There are some minor bugs and some things to be approved on but this game absolutely blew me a way and introduced a new era to a genre that's been needed and wanted forever. I may be biased but I fully think this game is a 10 to me.
The game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. I could go more into detail but I dont think I need to. You got to play this game.
An incredible, beautiful, and immersive game. Ghost of Tsushima is a great game to finish the ps4 exclusives. The best open world issue I've ever played, surpassing "the witcher 3". I'm in doubt between: Ghost of Tsushima or Bloodborne, in the matter of best exclusive.One of the best games I have ever played.Congratulations Sucker Punch

Эта игра меня очень сильно затянула, прошел её на одном дыхании за неделю, было очень интересно в неё играть, это одна из немногих игр, которая вызывала у меня сильные эмоции, я давно не испытывал чего то подобного при прохождении других игр. Сюжет довольно интересный, несмотря на то, что в нём ничего необычного и уникального особо и нет (речь идёт о неожиданных сюжетных поворотах или сильной привязанности к персонажам). Побочные задания от второстепенных персонажей тоже весьма увлекательные. Боёвка по мере прохождения игры постоянно развивается, из-за чего игра становится еще более захватывающей, со временем она не надоедает. Отдельного упоминания заслуживают локации, которые задают определённую атмосферу и выглядят очень красочно, не смотря на не такую уж и хорошую графику и даже с ней игра умудряется проседать, а консоль начинает сильно шуметь. Так же, мне очень понравилась система навигации, ничего лишнего, никаких меток, выглядит минималистично, но иногда возникают трудности, я такого раньше не встречал, но эта система мне очень понравилась.К сожалению, в глаза сильно бросаются движения персонажей, они выглядят очень нереалистично, что портит впечатление от игры. Я ставлю этой игре 8 баллов только из-за технической части, могло быть и лучше, но игра всё равно достойная и заслуживает хорошей оценки.
Man I never wrote a review on this site, but felt this is the time. This game is amazing, I cryed in the end. The combat is amazing, a mix of sekiro, batman and ryse. The fights are so fun, and the animations, oh boy, best I've seen to date. The fight is like a dancing, it's so beautiful. The way the mongols move and all the stances you have it's so great. The side missions are integrated with the main missions, they are fun and I have done all of them. The sound is amazing too. The exploration is very encouraged, there many pieces of armour and swords to find. The only bad thing I found is that the graphics are a little too dark. But thats not enough to diminish how amazing this game is. I love sucker punch games, loved second son, keep up the good work. 10/10

One of the best game's I have ever played. I could go on and on about the gameplay, the story, the world, but I'll save us all some time and just tell you this. Go buy it. Ita 40$ for 80 hours of pure fun.
Now that's how you end a PlayStation generation ★★★★★★★★★☆ Pros- Compelling story, immersive open world, extremely satisfying extensive combat system, rewarding missions quests and collectibles, sense of character progression, perfect soundtrack, extensive customization, innovative visual cues replaces a HUD, camera mode, can play the flute and pet foxes, and of course a great ending. Cons- Jarring combat camera, no option for wind and particle effect intensity, not the greatest character and animal animations, more variety in random encounters, some obvious yet admittedly hilarious bugs that will likely be ironed out in future updates. Summary Ghost of Tsushima managed to quickly become one of my most loved games. So much in fact, that I went out my way to pet every fox, climb every shrine and bathe in every hot spring just to platinum it. Sure there are flaws, but there is so much that this game gets right that it is easy to forgive some of these problems as they do not take too much away from the overall experience.
Ghost of Tsushima could've been a mediocre game at best, but it proves to be much better than many other open world games out there. This is probably the most beautiful game I've ever played, after TLOU2. Part of the reason why it is so fantastic is because of its scenery. The art direction and evinronmental design is near-perfect here and it merges VERY WELL with story and gameplay. The island of Tsushima is so rich with beauty and secrets to find, that makes you ACTUALLY strive to defend it from the Mongols. It makes you give a **** The gameplay is also top-notch. I confess that it took me a long while to fully get used to the combat but, when it clicks, it CLICKS. It mixes style with substance with ease and makes every single encounter be slightly different or intense enough to make you search for more. Especially during the big battles that the story throws you in. Exploration (of course) plays a gigantic role in how you'll enjoy the game's progress and I'm happy to say that riding and running through the fields of Tsushima is one of the "chillest" things in gaming, in 2020. Discovering secrets, experiencing the calm soundtrack, collecting masks, flowers, completing objectives, raising your legend status and doing everything else that the open world has to offer is stunning. It might get repetitive, since objectives lose variety halfway through the 2nd act, outstaying its welcome a bit, but it's nothing gamebreaking and it's just incredible how GoT's collectables managed to keep me interested until the credits roll. Even the sidequests got me hooked. There are some very fun and well-written ones. But the story is probably the weakest part of GoT. While it does get better in the 2nd act, characters have no charisma and the writing lacks any surprises and charm. It does come with some impactful high stakes moments and a few enjoyable samurai tropes, but not enough to make it stand out. Combat, while VERY stylish, does require some time to get used to. At first, it might feel clunky, especially when you're fighting many enemies. Fighting does not work against mobs in this game. Also, stealth mechanics, while seviceable, only work when you done perfectly. Problem is, GoT will seldom give you space or a path to always eliminate entire groups by only using stealth. One last thing that might push you away from Ghost of Tsushima is how "cliché" it can become. It is an open world that WILL get repetitive, DOES use a bunch of systems and mechanics from others of the genre and NO, it's not as good as industry colossi like The Witcher 3 or Zelda BOTW. The thing is: That's fine! Ghost of Tsushima gets all of those clichés and problems, put them in a powerful blender and makes an impressive and bonafide juice with it. If you like action and open world games, I definitely recommend this one. It's one of the most remarkable exclusives on the console. Unless... Unless you don't like the samurai, for some reason.
The last of the Exclusive PlayStation games has come. And it does not disappoint. The game is above all else beautiful and serene and at the same time an ode to all things Japanese culture. Never has there been another game to take place with such grace and ease. It’s almost as if Sucker Punch was meant to make this game. From the landscapes to the combat, everything is a dance of color and respect for you, the player, and for the culture it sincerely represents. Combat is just right, difficult and rewarding. With every strike of the katana, Jin Sakai feels powerful yet vulnerable. Every move you make is meaningful. The score is definitely one of the better ones in any game, reminiscent of the movie entitled “Hero” with Jet Li. Blades of grass bend under your feet and to the wind toward your objective. “Your father is the guiding wind behind your back” your uncle proclaims. Giving substance and meaning to even the simplest yet most effective waypoint systems in any game made to date. Little details abound everywhere like this. I am almost sad that only people with a PlayStation can enjoy this title. This game is probably one of the easiest to play and yet difficult to master games. It is like dark souls with beauty and grace. Death , despair, honor and dignity. Themes present in the game pointing you ever forward to the conclusion. By and large a great tale of a accidental hero rising to the occasion to save his people , culture and home. It deserves your attention. It is a fantastic game. Flawed but perfect, like a Japanese painting. Play this game. You will regret you did not.
10/10 10/10 10/10 no words to say just 10/10 10/10 10/10 10/10 no words to 10/10 10/10 10/10
This game is a playstation classic in my opinion. Top 5 playstation exclusives. Probably number 5. All around fun gameplay, where you have to change stances on the fly to suit specific enemy types. The story is one amazing samurai epic. I absolutely recommend!
This game is amazingly fun, and incredibly gorgeous. The fighting is so fun that I always complete all the side quests from a zone before moving to the next and this is something I rarely do in games. I regret not buying the collector's edition when I had the chance because I always thought the combat will be Dark Souls style, slow paced and tactical, but no. The combat is very fun, there are some boss fights that provided a good challenge as they required way more patience than your average mongol. The graphics and visuals in this game are maybe unmatched by anything. You always feel like you want to take pictures, it is simply stunning. If you are a sucker for particle effect like me, especially leaves blown by the wind you will have a lot of this while running through leaves or flower petals covered forests floors. There are several duels that take place in some amazing and diverse duel rings next to beautiful bodies of water of full of fireflies. There is also an incredible attention to details in some way you might easily miss but the cool kind of attention to detail, not the boring kind from Red Dead Redemption 2. The developers seem to have put quite a lot of thought it this game like you put in raising your beloved child. There are several videos on youtube showing this. I am still playing it but it will be probably my second game that I will try to get a platinum trophy for because like Zelda it makes you want to explore every corner of the world finding all its secrets and amazing hidden places. The game is not perfect, I would have preferred a little bit of easier world traversal, like being able to jump of cliffs with less damage or more climbing parts although fast travel is very fast and makes it easier to go from place to place. Also side quests diversity could have been bigger but the fun combat makes up for it.

It's easily the best and most captivating game of 2020. There's so much love for detail, I found myself several times just looking fascinated at what was before me. You have a open world game without quest markers, without mini maps, without the typical open world clutter we are used to.
Great game , amazing in fact , combat feel’s weird at first but as you get more comfortable with it feel’s fun and satisfying , they did an amazing job showing the sheer power of the katana where you can die easily but the enemies also die easily ( this is more consistent in lethal mode ) , great graphics and detail , story starts of dry of bland but by the end of the second chapter you understand why it started of dry jun also grows as a character from being an emotionless samurai to the “ghost of tsushima” Just an absolute masterpeice
Honestly after watching the E3 presentation back in 2016 and eventually the pre-release clips I wasn't expecting much. Having played some passt Assassin's Creed games, which somehow I immediately connected to this game, and hearing the term open world, I wrote it off as an other generic Ubisoft-like experience. Gather this, explore that, rinse and repeat. The only thing that kept me slightly more interested was SuckerPunch's previous titles such as the Sly Cooper and Infamous which although they didn't blow me away I fairly enjoyed. Yet after looking further into the combat system from curtain trusted YouTube channels and being a big fan of the Japanese culture I thought I'd give the game a chance. I spent 70€ (PS Store) and jumped in hoping that my hard earned money and time I'll invest won't go to waste. Damn, the opening, these amazing graphics! "This could be something special" I thought. "Now if only this stays as amazing as the opening we've got in our hands something real good". And it did. Beyond the beautiful landscapes and the minimal hub wind based ways of getting to your next objective lies a satisfying combat system that doesn't become boring (at least for me playing in hard mode). The game feels fluid and tempts you to explore, to discover different gear and attires to customize your character as you please. It throws you into unexpected situations that puts you in the shoes of how samurai had to always be prepared for danger lurking. To cut it short they managed to find the perfect balance between an AC game and the realism of Red Dead Redemption 2 but somehow making it more enjoyable than both. Although it does have some flaws it is easy to look past them and highly recommend it. For me it's an easy 9/10.
Best game I played in a long time. The stories within the larger story, are just as interesting and running around getting the side items are a blast too.
Amazing game! The open world looks like a painting, it's so colorful and beautiful. I achieved the platinum trophy with such a pleasure and happiness that i wished the game had more missions to complete. The combats are simply formidable, cause you need to know which position to choose and the right time to attack. The story is no blockbuster but it's a nice and well done storytelling. Great job, sucker punch! Can't wait for GOT 2!
I'll be honest, this game snuck up on me. I was unaware of it until launch. I just completed the story yesterday. It was an utterly flawless game. The story was great as a history buff. The combat was fun and engaging. The sound design and graphics are top notch. I did not run into anything I felt was needlessly repetitive. I completed the game entirely.if I had one nitpick it would be that there isnt a new game + or that the story doesnt go on for 10 hours more!

I can't say enough about this game, the story is engaging and fighting is fun. Locations are beautiful, often making you stop and look around. Buy this in physical copy because it will be a must have.
I havent played this game but watched some gameplay and boi this game is great.i mean if i gave it a 10 without playing it you can imagine how good itis.
The game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions. The graphics are beautiful,
I believe this is the best game I have ever played, the first game that I have completed to 100% including finding every item to complete, and the first game that I have enjoyed throughout. I found this game to be a joy to play at every moment. The story was fascinating and entertained my long-standing interest in Japanese samurai history. The game mechanics for the character and even the horse that you ride are smooth, which makes for very enjoyable gameplay. The game was designed beautifully and almost every location that your character passes through on the island of Tsushima is impressively scenic. 11 out of 10, with an extra point for perfection, this game is great!
Ghost Of Tsushima was a pleasant suprise, with unique exploration mechanics that utilize nature to guide you to find collectibles and hidden areas, beautiful biomes and regions that are vastly different from one another, satisfying/ brutal combat that holds your attention, charming characters that have tons of unique side quest that add to the game world, the best photo mode seen in gaming, and much more. I wasn’t as hyped for this before release, but after playing the first hour I can’t put it down. Sucker Punch has brought feudal Japan alive, and have done an excellent job building a Charming unique world into the fold.
Un extraordinario juego con una fuerte ambientación de la cultura e historia japonesa. Historia profunda en la cual se siente la frustración de un pueblo oprimido por la invasión Mongol, crudeza de esa época con enemigos tanto invasores como los del mismo pueblo que se convierten en criminales que buscan sobrevivir siendo traidores vendidos al bando enemigo o simplemente por necesidad. Es ahí cuando nuestro héroe que no es un todo poderoso desde el inicio tiene que pasar por una y mil aventuras para fortalecerse a sí mismo y por ende reunir un grupo para poder liberar a la isla de Tsushima. Me encantó el juego, es bastante filosófico y como es basada en la cultura japonesa valores como el honor, lealtad y esfuerzo son muy frecuentes. Para mi el juego del año, además de ser un juego que procura ser neutral en las cuestiones de corrección política, pero bueno aun así hay un personaje que es debido a la presión de los medios tuvieron que poner de la manera mas forzada para convertirla en bisexual aunque era casada y con hijos, fue super forzado pero solo fue el 1% del juego. Al principio tiende a ser un poco monótono, pero a medida que avanzamos la historia y fortalecemos a Jin, el juego se vuelve super divertido. Cómprenlo sin pensarlo dos veces, un juego extraordinario.
Amazingly beautiful world and satisfying stylish combat. Just being a ninja/samurai and exploring the world is what this game is all about. The story and side quests have mediocre writing in places but also great moments especially later on in the game and the Mythic quests. The beautiful visual style and art in this game makes up for any other shortcomings.
Honestly it’s a pretty great game. I got it around two weeks ago and i have been going through almost all of it since then. Extremely fun combat(might need some getting used to) and a very decent story that sticks the landing really well. But the graphics are by far its best asset. It looks gorgeous all the time. Has a few good ideas like letting you stop a quest to go do sth else and not really forcing the exploration and collectibles down your throat. They are there, make no mistake, but they are fun optional things to do. Looking forward to more games in this series.
One of the best games I've ever played. Imagine if the creators of Red Dead Redemption decided to make the same game, except with samurais. It encourages you to explore the world and there are so many fun little details like following a yellow bird that can lead you to hot springs that increase your health and other cool things. Story is very engaging, before the game even begins it drops a bomb on you and then just when you start to get the hang of the sword play, the game shames your character and thus begins the actual game where you must go find companions to help you on your mission and increase your "legend" to obtain new ghost weapons. In the beginning the controls and all the abilities seem to be overwhelming but will quickly become second nature to you. It was way better then I thought it be, did not want to put down my controller while playing it.
O jogo é excelente. Possui uma mecânica de combate extremamente divertida e viciante. A exploração é algo lindo de ver devido aos cenários bonitos e bem construídos. Em determinados momentos, porém, a qualidade gráfica não se mantem. Nada disso atrapalha a diversão. É uma ótima pedida.


Solid open world game, Aside from ratings below, the framerate and smoothness of control is superior. The load times whether booting or loading a new area are lightning fast for a game of this size. Top notch programming graphics: 10 audio: 9 gameplay 9 story 9


Vamos lá, acabei de platinar esse jogo e PQP, que jogo! Direção artística absolutamente fantástica. Combate visceral e viciante. Personagens bons, nada de extraordinário mas mtooo bons, e o protagonista tem uma ótima construção. Exploração do mapa é um dos pontos fortes, já que a ambientação é extremamente boa. Missões secundárias interessantes. Eu certamente jogarei tudo de novo pois é um jogo imersivo e altamente divertido. A história apesar de não ter nada de explodir mentes, é bem legal, é mto o que se espera de algo do gênero Samurai. Eu estou completamente feliz de ter jogado este game.
Amazing Gameplay and Artstyle. Best exploration and open world since breath of the wild. Combat is deep and rewarding when mastered on hard mode.

El mejor juego de samuráis que pueda existir y quiero advertir que muchas de las criaticas malas son de gente con múltiples cuentas y solo hacen eso para dejar mal al juego



Very likely the most beautiful game ever made, it ties together the best elements of a genre in a the show of mastery. It doesn't push the envelope, it stays in it's lane and shows what is possible.
This game is by far the best that I've played on PS4. Stunning graphics, brilliant sound effects and a magnificent picture really helps getting a full immersion in the game. Another thing that I liked was the difficulty. You see, this game focuses more on the plot (which is also a very good thing), and, unlike Nioh or Sekiro, you won't have to die 20 times on the same place. Overall, Sucker Punch did a great job on creating a game that would mark the end of PS4. A very picturesque end. I hope that they will also port this masterpiece on PS5. 10/10.
I normally don't click with expansive open world games, they usually get stale for me, but I found the world in this game to be a joy to explore, so much so that I went probably around 60-70 hours to get the platinum and never felt exploring and slicing up enemies ever overstayed it's welcome. It's just a really FUN game through and through. One of my earliest concerns was how they would handle combat variety since everything you fight are human enemies, there are no big mythical creatures and demons like you get in Sekiro or Nioh for example. Well it's true there isn't a whole lot of variety in the enemy types themselves, but what I think makes the fun factor of this combat system last so long is how versatile the mechanics are. There are a bunch of different tools and tactics at your disposal that you can approach one fight very differently from another. Even super late in the game I was still learning new tricks I didn't know you could do, like kick someone into the air and fire an arrow into them as they're flying. Still even though all the enemies are people (besides a few animals), they do mix up the fighting styles to keep you on your toes. But really that's just scratching the surface on why this game is good, all I'll say is if you're craving an open world samurai game, THIS IS THE ONE. You get fun combat, an absolutely stunning world to play in, and a great, more traditional samurai story with memorable characters.
This game is simply incredible, even not being historically accurate the story is fascinate not for the plot twists or something like that, but for how Jin Sakai (the main character) envolves thougth the narrative to become the ghost of tshushima and a few remarkable moments that made my jaw fall. The open world is full of dialogues and upgrades to get, for simply bathing or getting a legendary armor. (They are useful and worth of doing, but if you’re playing on a easy/medium difficulty they break the game a little) The gameplay is enjoyable all the time despite the bugs, the combat is fluid, the stealth is exiting with brutal executions, but with a poor AI. AI.AI smart AI.
Ghost Of Tsushima is an amazing game and definitely a must-play. Deserves GOTY and is such a blast to play through. I don't get why the critic score 83 as of right now. Definitely don't agree PROS: - Great gameplay - Immersive soundtrack - An insanely pretty game - ABSOLUTELY QUICK FAST TRAVEL (atleast 90% of the time) - Storyline is great CONS (mostly nitpicks): - not 60 FPS if you need your game fps to be 60 - No lock-on feature (you'll get used to it, definitely) Rating: Story/Characters - 9/10 Gameplay - 10/10 Sound/Music - 9/10 Graphics - 10/10 Overall - 10/10

Wow... just wow. The music, the visuals, the main story, the twist at the end... What a game. Worth a buy. Could not wait to play it again everytime I stopped. Jin Sakai. You're a legend!





I am not good at writing long detailed reviews, but I felt that Ghost of Tsushima was so good that I would at least give my opinion. If you played a Sucker Punch game then you’ll feel right at home here. The open world is vast and just so beautiful. These devs should be commended. The passion and love that went into this game is very apparent. The characters are great, I loved playing as Jin. He has an interesting story that revolves around the main plot. I also want to commend them for making the secondary missions feel as important as the main missions. There is a lot to do in this game if you don’t like doing all the extra stuff you can get away with doing the main story and maybe just a small amount of the other missions but in my opinion you would be missing a great part of the game if you skipped out on side quests. And also for completionist there is collectibles and those are actually pretty fun to hunt down as well. Long story short the game is beautiful with a magnificent story, I really enjoyed my time with this game and hope for DLC or a sequel more than anything right now. Something else I want to add that blew me away is that the loading times on this game are amazing and I played the digital copy on a PlayStation 4 pro on a regular hard drive and load times were never more than maybe 10 or 15 seconds long. So if you have love for open world game samurai awesome action come back and then definitely do yourself a favor and check this game out.

Лучшая игра по Японию и самураев в истории. Потрясающая атмосфера. Прекрасная подача сюжета и раскрытие персонажей. Однако с технической частью есть проблемы - геймплей будто из 2010 года. Отвратительный стелс. Сомнительная боевая система. Довольно нудный гринд, хотя его не очень много. Отсутствие липсинка для Японского языка. Серьёзно??? Всё же в 2020 году живём. Сюжет 10 из 10. Геймплей 6 из 10. Итого 8.
I picked this game up on release day with low expectations not knowing what to expect and my god did it blow my mind from the amazing story to the music, combat, characters and don’t even get me started on the outstanding graphics some of the best I’ve seen on the PS4, even after beating the game there is so much more still to do to explore the island of Tsushima and complete the many side quests there are within the game which are also very good side missions I can’t think of many flaws at all with this game and would class it as a must play for any gamer into a good story game or that enjoys a good open world game this is definitely a must play.
Hey zusammen habe so eben das Ghost of Tsushima durchgespielt und möchte euch eins sagen wenn mann nicht nur die story verfolgt sonder auch die legenden werden die kämpfe sehr spaßig schade das es keine wirkliche Einfluss die Entscheidungen auf die haupt Story haben aber empfehlenswert muss sagen das zweite Game was ich gerne auf 100 % gebracht habe sogar alle neben Missionen etc. probiert es aus habt Spaß und die Füchse streichen nicht vergessen natürlich haikus schreiben :D
O jogo se torna muito especial a partir do momento em que tenta quebrar alguns clichês do gênero "open world" mesmo mantendo outros deles, assegurando uma experiência muito intrigante, única e surpreendente. Exemplo disso é o sistema de sidequests, cada uma delas não é feita em vão no ponto de vista da narrativa do jogo, não apresentando missões repetidas ou de entrega de itens. Mas nada impede do jogador ignorar essas missões secundárias, podendo seguir direto nas missões principais da história, já que o jogo não apresenta um sistema numérico de Level do personagem. Os upgrades são feitos de forma muito natural com pontos de experiência adquiridos durante alguns combates, depois aplicados em árvores de habilidades, cada uma delas recompensando de verdade o jogador com novas mecânicas dentro da gameplay. A história é agradável de acompanhar, os personagens são muito bem escritos e possui uma cadência de acontecimentos bem pontual e coerente. Ela fica ainda melhor se o jogador completar todas as sidequests específicas de personagens mais relevantes antes de chegar no clímax final. Tudo isso acontecendo em um mundo vasto, repleto de conteúdo, dividido em 3 partes, cada uma referente a um ato da história. O visual do jogo é muito bonito, o cenário realmente ganha vida com a excelência artística da Sucker Punch. Existem bugs frequentes de física, coisas atravessando, personagens flutuando, até algumas texturas sem muitos detalhes. Mas já que se trata de um jogo de mundo aberto, com uma performance tão boa no Ps4, isso pode ser relevado. Aliás, joguei no Playstation 4 Slim, e quedas de FPS só aconteceram de forma intensa em duelos, momentos especiais em que você enfrenta um único inimigo com um ângulo de câmera mais próximo do personagem e com mais efeitos rolando na tela. Fora isso, os loadings são assustadoramente rápidos. Esqueça Assassin's Creed Odyssey, em que você espera minutos para abrir o jogo. Enfim, Ghost of Tsushima cumpre o papel de inovar, respeitar o gênero, surpreender e, PRINCIPALMENTE, divertir o jogador.
I made an account just to rate this game, because it has been many, many years since I have played a game this good, and Sucker Punch needs to be praised for making by far, the best game on the PS4. This game is only the second game ever to make me cry, the first being Nier Replicant. The ending was beautiful and seriously brought tears to my eyes. And this is coming from someone who hardly ever cries. The gameplay is fun and addicting, the soundtrack is really nice and fits the game, and the story is one of the best I’ve ever seen. Seriously, do yourself a favor and pick this game up if you haven’t already. It’s one of the best games you’ll ever play! Thank you so much for the hard work Sucker Punch! This is the first game of yours I’ve ever played, but it definitely won’t be the last. You just got yourself a new fan!
from the off, i'm going to state that i already have bias in favour of samurai and ninja video games as a massive fan of stealth games such as the tenchu series. that being said, i was already a fan of this game before i even installed the game into my console. now i've played it i can confidentally say......i absolutely love this game now granted, there were a lot of things that knocked me out of the emersion such as the glitches. constantly getting stuck in terrain when you feel like you should be able to climb that area, certain dialogue options not triggering when they should. entire missions rendered unplayable such as the water children mission looking for the kappa when i was supposed to be looking for clues and instead stuck in an endless investigation animation until i had to restart. other than these instances, i enjoyed every minute. i love all of the bright colours you witness as you traverse your environment, the mysterious side quests you come across searching for legendary outfits and equipment, the fact that you can use the wind to guide you to your objective with a quick swipe up of your controller to even being able to change the weather by playing your flute you carry around. i enjoyed everything about this game and will be extremely surprised if this game doesn't score 'game of the year'. buy it, buy it now
Un maravilloso juego que si bien no es puntero en gráficos lo suple con una magnifica elección de colores y unos escenarios maravillosos ,ademas cuenta con una historias muy entretenida y una secundarias que si bien no son las mejores del medio tampoco son las peores la unica apega es que la jugabilidad se vuelve facilon hacia el final
A good game, pretty fun. It's an easy sekiro. It has amazing visuals and graphics. On the other hand the game is kinda generic and the story is wacky and not great. Its not a bad game but I was expecting a lit bit more.

To give you some background, I am a fan of Japanese history/culture and a hobby historian; I have done extensive research for the Kamakura era. This game takes a lot of creative liberties and I would say it is historically inspired, not historically accurate. The attire, for example, is more often Edo era but sometimes is Sengoku era--still several hundred years after the Mongol invasion. Let's not forget the Kamakura era was really the introduction to samurai and bushido as we would later know them but the games story treats them as established traditions. It's clear the main inspiration was Akira Kurosawa films, with stand offs, 1 on 1 duels, and an amazingly cinematic experience that isn't isolated to cutscenes as you can pause the game most anywhere and get a perfect camera shot. The world is compact, which I appreciate because I don't have time for the likes of Witcher 3 and Red Dead Redemption 2's bigger and more robust worlds. Everything decorating the world feels purposeful and tells it's own story, from tragically placed bodies to burned down ghost towns. There's something to do not too far in any direction and the people you serve rush to you needed aid or offering you information. The quests really do remind me of the Witcher where each is a unique, consice story that will never be repeated. I really feel like a samurai protecting his people, even after the billionth time I rescue some villager from Mongol captors. One thing I really appreciate is that the Mongols are not painted evil by default. You can see how human they can be within the prologue itself and it contrasts well with how frustrated the main character, Jin, gets with his own people in later missions. I've seen people complain that Jin is boring and I really believe it comes down to personal taste. He has his depth but it's carefully guarded and I think that's an intentional aspect for his situation and how he was raised. He's respectful to allies and animals alike, but will stand firm where he must. I only played the game in English as the mouths don't sync for Japanese but I'm not disappointed--all of the characters are acted very well and have a lot of emotion and care in their lines. The pronunciation for non-english words are mostly natural and I could tell the actors really cared about the language, making the characters feel all the more believable. I don't really feel like I need to justify the combat--it's amazing. It's not Assassin's Creed: I've played every main AC entry since Renaissance. Assassin's Creed wishes it was this good. Controls are tight, impact is so satisfying, and being able to change the difficulty any time gives you a real sense of mastery. It's easy to get overwhelmed, which is why sometimes the less honorable option is the only way. Still, you aren't forced to take the easy option most of the time so even if it's harder, you can just slice through enemies like a pure blooded samurai. The story is great, the gameplay is great, the history is inaccurate but treated with respect, and the game is clearly made with love and inspiration. I'm glad this game is daring to put Japanese history and tradition front and center without being fantasy or over-the-top waifu bait. Not only do I hope this encourages more westerners to appreciate the majesty of Japanese culture but also encourage Japanese developers to share their culture and history with the works without worrying about how to "westernize" it. This is a skippable point but let's be honest, reviewers are mad that Last of Us 2 did poorly. They're mad Americans love and respect Japanese culture. I'm so tired of hearing about "white people" or "racism" when seeing reviews about this game; if you are worried, this game is in no way racist. It's crafted beautifully and it's well deserving of all the love and praise it's gotten. For any of it's minor flaws, few low scores have been fair to it and I think if they stopped hating it because it's Japanese history told by Americans, then they might actually enjoy themselves. This is game of the year for me.
Flamboyant graphics, realistic action, fresh game system. And the story of probability being existenthusiastic. I think it will be the best game of the year.

Awesome game! Beautiful graphics and have a lot of content, and very respectful with the Asian culture and story, thats why this game is loved in Asia too. Good mechanics, everything is near perfection. Good job Sucker Punch, you deserve the GOTY.

Ghost of Tsushima is a stunning game. I have never before played a game with such a vibrant open world. It feels lived-in, it feels living. Before GoT I never experienced ASMR from a video game. Now I do. The falling of leaves, petals etc make this a magical world akin to something from a Studio Ghibli film. Equal parts Journey, Bushido Blade and Tenchu this is a game that has been constructed to please the people who forked out for it. Comparing it to TLOU2 is unfair to Naughty Dog because GoT blows it away. I dont know why anyone would choose TLOU2's edgelord nihilism over the magic of GoT - a game whose creators went out of their way to make enjoyable. Also comparisons to Assassins Creed persist but speaking as a fan of AC since the first one (though not so much recently) I am not throwing the games under the bus when I say that AC has never been this good. Not even close. Jin Sakai is a great MC who veers away from the preaching that has become commonplace in Western games and proves that gamers do not need forced MCs who mirror them at the threat of twitter mob outrage. There could be a case made that it is not as long as some other open world games but I would counter that there is no extraneous flab in GoT. Just classy, relevant substance. Its side missions serve a purpose, add to the plot and build the world Jin is trying to save. The add fuel to Jin's desire to save it at all costs. It is so refreshing to have side missions that serve a purpose and aren't just 'Deliver this persons frying pan'. It is a game that makes you care about its casts philosophies without badgering you with encyclopedias on why you're supposed to care (a la Death Stranding). Its world is magical and you want to protect it as much as Jin does. It isnt an exercise in making you feel like crap like TLOU2. It captures the essence of nature and play (which in reality are intertwined anyway). Ghost of Tsushima is a strong contender for Game of the Year and it would take something godlike to deny it.
Just an amazing game. Best graphics I've ever seen. They take the best parts of open world titles to the point I get my rpg fix with different armors for different playstyles and the ability to upgrade them, character leveling in a unique way (legend) and as someone who typically avoids the in game cosmetic items I actually feel like they mean something here. I just csnt praise this game enough. And they didn't get woke or rediculous either. 10/10.
Excellent game. Story is compelling, sword play is really fun and the learning curve is challenging, but not overly punishing. I feel like the only detractor is the diversity of assets is a little lackluster. Many of the camps feel the same and the houses appear to be packaged assets. That being said, the lack of diversity in assets only hurts immersion a little because it is reasonable to believe that the mongol tents and carts would actually be very similar in appearance. Tons of fun, would definitely recommend.

Outstanding game, enthralling story throughout all 3 acts with a great villain and fully enjoyable gameplay mechanics. The scenery and graphics are just stunning for a ps4 game, probably the best I've seen, it looks like a ps5 game. The game has a brilliant ending to top off an outstanding game. It simply is a must own for ps4 users. Xbox users are missing out big time!
Amazing game and a great experience, it has been some time since a game kept me playing and wanting to play so much, it got me hooked from the start to end. Thank you SP for this and congratulations on this masterpiece. I strongly recommended this and ignore the so-called critics and haters since it is a journey that you should live on your own. A solid 9.3 for me with the score being impacted by 1: Japanese dub missing lipsync, had to play it in English in the end since it was driving me crazy 2: Japanese voice sounds great but is too anime for me, the dialogue should be toned-down to reflect a less anime style and a more realistic tone. 3: Minor score decrease due to some activities that tended to be a little repetitive but they pushed you to explore and view the wonderful world that SP created (I have made more screenshots than ever ~2 GB). Incredible, had a blast, and looking to the next release from SP.
Most overrated game of the year, even taking the last of us 2’s place.Your a samauri you go somewhere either sneak around and hack some people up or just go sword blazing and hack people up, Jump on your horse and repeat.The game looks nice but you soon overlook that when you can’t keep your eyes open through boredom. Avoid!!
Great game feels like Assassin's creed mixed with Sekiro. If you like open world games you'll love this. If not, this game probably won't change your mind.
Used to trust user reviews more than critic reviews for games. But wtf happened here? This is a stale open-world game with solid graphics but a lame storyline, boring mechanics, and a lack of any originality. How is this the one of the highest scored games of all time for y'all? What a disappointment.
This is without a doubt the best gaming experience I've had on the ps4 and quite possibly my favourite game of all time. It has everything I want from an open world action / adventure adventure game. Fantastic story with interesting and meaningful side quests, engrossing gameplay with one of the best combat systems I've ever seen. Utterly jaw dropping visuals - they are not the most "realistic" graphics, but they sure are beautiful I've ever seen on a console - proving that photorealism doesn't necessarily equal better. The world is hugely immersive and uses a clever and original mechanic to guide you to your objectives and places of interest while maintaining an organic feel. Exploration in this world is a joy, Sucker Punch does a phenomenal job of recreating the atmosphere and environment of feudal Japan, from the dense bamboo forests, to the golden forests and peaceful fishing villages, to the tranquil hidden mountain shrines. There are so many things to discover. Even if you detract from the main quest, it never felt out of place going back to it. It's actually more beneficial to complete side quests before progressing through the main story, especially on harder difficulties. The voice acting is superb, the soundtrack is epic and lends a cinematic quality and ambience that succeeds in immersing you into the game. It's not without flaws though. The camera system can be hindering at times, there are a few graphical glitches (which are barely noticeably unless you're actively looking for them) and the main character could be a bit more interesting. However these flaws are so minor that they can easily be forgiven as Ghost of Tsushima more than makes up for them with it's many other shining attributes. A superb masterpiece of gaming 10/10



Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful and an enjoyable game. Simply, a labor of love.This game is my GOTY 2020 and here is why. Before everything, fast load times are great. Let's start with the beautiful and lush open world. The open world is not big and is not small because it is a perfect fit for the content the game has to offer, full of variety from beginning to end in terms of biomes, features very good amount of quality side quests that build the supporting characters as well as quests for the people in Tsushima. There are plenty of weather conditions you can experience in the game (my favorite being the sunny and stormy weather conditions), the lighting and clouds are wonderful. I only had one minor thing that could have been better is not being able to re-visit a few castles after story, maybe you can and I haven't figured it out but from what I tried I couldn't get in, [insert LET ME INNN meme]. Next, the gameplay. The game features two fighting styles, Samurai (Katanas Blazing lol) and Ghost (Stealth), there are no restrictions you can mix and match as you like. Each style has its own skills to unlock, as well as a lot of variety to how you can take on different types of enemies using stances which also have their own skills. Then there are charms which are passive skills you can equip. Along the variety of the stances there is also variety to the ghost style which has its own skill tree, let's just say there are plenty of skills to go around and unlock and the great thing about it is that you will get all of those lovely skills and enjoy your way to get them because of how fun the combat is and the great side quests to do, I did not feel like it was a drag instead I wanted more. Furthermore, you can use the bow and some more weapons you can unlock as you progress the story. You will have plenty of ways to take on enemies, you might even neglect some because there are so many and you might grow a preference to some over the other, but trying new weapons and mixing them with your gameplay every time will always be equally fun. There hasn't been too many games where I am going somewhere and I see a patrol or an enemy camp and the first thought I get every time even at the end of the game is that this is going to be good, the combat is so enjoyable I can't get enough I am always fighting whichever enemies come across me or I come across them. I played the game about %60 Samurai and %40 Ghost, the AI could be better in some sections when going stealth and the camera might get in your way sometimes. The duels are another great feature of the game, basically they are the boss fights and they're so much enjoyable. I wish in a future update they would let us replay them, at least the ones in the open world. If I had to give you a feel to how the combat is from games you might have played, I would say Sekiro combat + Nioh combat and a sprinkle of Batman combat and there you go Ghost of Tsushima combat. Crafting, upgrading and customization, they're all done the right way, no restrictive levels or you can't use this until you reach this rank etc. If you have the materials and the supplies to craft/upgrade whatever you want guess what you can, yes you can get a lot done in just the first act of the game that you might fear to become overpowered but don't worry as you progress the enemies will be challenging, I will not lie I did hold off some of the sword upgrades/ skills that makes killing enemies faster until the final act because I wanted the fights to last longer due to how fun they are. I also didn't use the ghost weapons willy-nilly until the final act as well due to the same fact. Overall, it is up to you and there are no restrictions on you, if you feel you are becoming overpowered you can hold off some skills/upgrades until the final act in which you will feel comfortable with all of the upgrades and skills. You balance yourself out and if that's still too easy just play on Lethal difficulty. The customization, you can unlock them all in-game, the way all games should be instead of bloated skins’ stores that are after every penny you've got. Moreover, the armors you unlock all have their own passive skills for each type of armor/outfit, The soundtrack is simply wonderful I loved it and the voice acting was great. Finally, the story, I have enjoyed the story and the characters all the way to the end, loved the character development and the back stories of the supporting characters as well, likewise there is some good lore. Overall, a very enjoyable experience through and through, I can't wait until SuckerPunch adds in new game+ to have another go at it. I would recommend it to avid 3rd person lovers that enjoy sword combat. I think you will like the game if you like AC franchise, Sekiro,The Witcher 3.


I loved this game so much. Sucker Punch knocked it out of the park with an engaging story and a beautiful ending. This was the first and only game where I cried at the ending, so I knew that I should review this game here.
The game is an amazing experience. It holds you in front of the tv. It is a color entertainment and makes you take screenshots so often. It attracts you into the world so that you want to explore every place and do every side mission. This deserves 100% the game of the year 2020.
Combat was fantastic, graphics amazing, story was good very polished indeed. I wish you got access to many things earlier on in the game, most of it didn't come until very late. Also, I think a lock-on is a must when your camera is challenging at the best of times. 8/10 from me!


This game is beautiful and amazing. The combat is very smooth and strategic, the customization is awesome, Missions are really good and the exploration and side stuff you can do in the game is amazing. There is so much to do in this game besides playing through the story, you can strike bamboos, go to shrines, go to hot springs, go to different mongol territories and liberate them, and so much more. The combat also makes you feel like a samurai! And Jin is a cool character to play as! 10/10!!! Also this was an amazing way to end off the PlayStation 4 exclusives. Now it’s on to having a great time with the PlayStation 5!


Compulsively playable. An absolutely gorgeous looking game with a riveting narrative as well as stellar and addictive combat. The digital deluxe edition was the best quarantine purchase I’ve made yet.
まずグラフィックが凄くいいです そしてストーリーも面白くて引き込まれました。仁がすごくいいキャラしててプレイしてるときも感情移入してしまいましたサッカーパンチにこれからも期待してます
Absolutely gorgeous setting. Fun open world. Main quest and side quests are interesting. Surprising amount of customization. Meaning there is a lot. You won't be disappointed. I haven't felt this excited to search out question mark locations since Witcher 3.

Good job SP Samurai goooood，landscape gooood，Story Good，It’s very interesting

感覺出製作團隊很用心打造出一款武士風格的開放世界遊戲，這種類型的遊戲在ps4上少見，整體來說都還不錯，風景漂亮，戰鬥不會太難也不會太簡單，缺點是有一些小bug


I’ve been waiting on this game ever since it got revealed a few years ago and I have to say i am very impressed. From the graphics, to the gameplay, the story, and overall performance. I would strongly recommend this game if you own a ps4.
What an amazing game! This is truly a work of art! The visuals, the story arch, the customization, the gushing wind and the overall experience is wonderful and majestic. The only thing that can be a problem for some people is the combat system, it is not your usual auto lock on system and it will take you a while to get use to it and to appreciate the great effect it has when it comes to fighting. Ghost of Tsushima makes a great last exclusive entry to the PlayStation4.
For all those Critics who reviewed this game below 8 at least, you are unfit to play games and give ratings, if only you guys really play games to give ratings. For all those gamers out there, this game is nothing short of spectacular. Do not heed those negetive reviews whatsoever.
This game is gorgeous, simply gorgeous, the story is phenomenal so far and the gameplay is fun as hell. I wonder why critiques are giving this such a low score? is it because there are no trans characters portrayed on ancient japan? Makes sense, if you are just a gamer that enjoys to play games without virtue signalling or politics. This game is for you.
Unbelievable, sucker punch has arrived!!!! Beautiful graphics, best possible samurai game. Solid story, spectacular combat. Must buy if you have PS4, if not, go get one. Seriously
I can not stop. Very well. thx.ᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟ ᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟ ᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟᅟ

Es uno de los mejores juegos que he podido disfrutar este año en ps4 en el apartado técnica el juego destaca ;la ambientación es uno de los puntos mas fuertes del juego haciendo ver los entornos mas vivo ,con una buena iluminación y una gran cantidad de partículas en pantalla hacen que te deslumbres con sus gráficos aunque con respecto a algunas texturas de los personajes el juego se ve algo inferior pero con pero lo termina opacando la hermosa ambientación que posee con respecto asu banda sonora es una de las mas hermosas que podremos ver en un juego de samurais cada enfrentamiento hace que se vuelva unico por sucalidad audiovisual.Por lo que tiene que ver la historia y sus misiones el juego cumple su funcion de dar una historia algo interesante con una buena jugabilidad que lo hace muy divertida con una buena cantidad de horas que hacen que te beneficien en tu compra ,las misiones aunque se vuelven algo repetitivas pero te recompensan en varios aspectos en el apartado estético de tu personaje y sus habilidades igual se vuelve muy disfrutable es un juego que culmina la generación de ps4 alo grande gracias sucker punch por no decepcionarme con una nueva entrega ambientado en el japón feudal te ha salido de maravilla.




This is how you make a single player game. Visually its pure art, the atmosphere is insane. Combat is not complex but very decent. The story is typical Japanese samurai story but that's what I expect from a game like this.



I'm currently working on playing this game and I've been having an absolute blast playing it so far. I'm a huge fan of anything having to do with Samurai and hearing about this game coming out a few months back got me hyped. After playing it, I have to say well done. It's pretty formulaic and plays like a lot of other open world action adventure games but the story and setting, as well as cinematic options sell it well. My only real gripe with the game is you can't go around cutting down all that bamboo everywhere, lol. It will take me awhile to finish the game, however. I'm currently in the middle of writing a book and have set a daily word goal before I do anything else. But when I'm able to get on I instantly start having fun. If you like anything having to do with Japan, Feudal Japan and Samurai, do yourself a favor and pick up this game. I promise you won't be disappointed.
What a Masterpiece! Sucker Punch has just elevated itself into the top tier of video game makers, replacing the aging Naughty Dog that has disappointed as of late. This game is beautiful in every way, in fact that's my one and only complaint about the game - that it is TOO BEAUTIFUL - and exhaustingly fun to play at that. I've used photo mode on this game more that any other game ever! As PS4's "swan-song" this is a delight, just what we needed, more like the Magnus Opus of the PS4 era. This is the GOTY and possibly the GOTG! Pick it up, it does not disappoint!

O jogo é tudo o que eu queria, uma mistura de Tenchu, Shinobido e The Way of the Samurai em mundo aberto, um combate que seria uma mistura de Sekiro e Nioh porém muito superior aos 2, o mundo aberto é muito recompensador e divertido de se explorar, e side quests que são divertidas de se fazer, com gráficos bonitos e uma vegetação que deixa tudo mais lindo ainda. Ainda assim tem algumas texturas que são meio feias principalmente o chão em alguns lugares , a camera pode atrapalhar um pouco no combate. Acima de tudo é uma ótima experiência! Recomendo demais!

In a nutshell... Just play it and you will experience the most gorgeous game you will ever see... Don't waste your time looking for reviews and gameplays... I will replay it on Ps5..


The MOST beautiful game I ever played in my ENTIRE live. A simply story but perfectly directed with carismatic characters, Jin is amazing. Strong,epic, and emotive game. The combat is truly awesome, a masterpiece. When you take the sword, you will never stop, trust me.
First Metacritic should be ashamed of them selves to do this on a game that didn't cause a **** storm of controversy unlike a certain mutt company made just to be woke? No thanks. But the game is astounding to play, watch and been trying to get a friend of my to go and buy it. The looks of the island is so beautiful I just wanted to sit on my horse and play on my flute for the feels of this game. The controls kind of remind me of either the Infamous series or the Arkham games witch for me is kind of a plus when I remember going through New Marre as Cole with his new electric baton and Batman with all his gadgets, the combination of the both is something I never thought I would want in but got it anyway. So to Sucjer Punch I hope you all stay safe and thank you for this beautiful game.


Open world medieval Japan, a life long dream come true for a whole lot of gamers ! Visuals and art are breathtaking, gameplay is fantastic, strory is fun to follow, interesting intelligent villain....it really has everything. The only negative point (for which I won't deduct anything) is the absence of a japanese "set of lip syncs" or whatever you wanna call it. Made me realize how much effort and time Square invested in FFVII. Thank you Sucker Punch, thanks to you fans of Japan are having the time of their life.

Okay, Im finally see a great game, not business and not sjw **** If you like Japanese setting - thats a game for you. To be short: - great graphic - great gameplay - epic story - no microtransactions - you see love that developrs give us with their product :)
Takes everything introduced to open world games this generation and packages in a near perfect experiences in what may be the most stunning world ever rendered.
if you ignore the camera and the no enemy's lock this game is one unique experience in all elements , graphics , sounds , main story , side missions and the irony for the side missions you can compair it as a Main Mission. and also get this game one huge slap in tlou2 face
Sucker Punch won my heart with the original infamous and since then all their games keep improving on the previous one. They took a long time to release another ps4 titles but the wait was worth it. The story is amazing and it reminds me of classic japanese cinema, the music is very immersive and memorable, the graphics are mind blowing and photo mode is like a dream come true. the combat is very impressive, the only tiny flaw is when enemies are hit by arrows it looks silly. Sadly ultra left progressive reviewers bombed this game with 60s and 70s when that is far from the rating it deserves all because it doesn't have thar ultra diverse marginalized cast they always beg for. People need to get off their high horse of virtue signaling and allow people to enjoy games for what they are ENTERTAINMENT NOT POLITICAL STATEMENTS.

So far I am 20 +hours in to the game and it is absolutely amazing .. graphics wise the game is beautiful .. the game play you actually feel like a samurai .. compared to ac it's better .. the sword feels like you are slicing through dudes the enemies are not damage sponges .
Great graphics, great music, great gameplay...I'm not sure what game some of the others are reviewing. Plus, I love screenshots and I've spent almost as much time taking screenshots as playing the game. Haven't bought a game in a while with the PS5 looming but decided to bite the bullet and get this. I loved the Infamous series and they didn't let me down. Love it!
ce jeu est une tuerie , le gameplay des combats est excellent il ressemble à sekiro mais en moins spectaculaire certes mais ça marche super bien. Le monde ouvert est sublime et les quêtes annexes sont variés en + d'être attrayants et intéressants pour la plupart. Les combats de boss quel pied, L'ost un chef d'oeuvre tout simplement. Je met ce jeu au coté de zelda breath of the wild. sinon pour les immondes notes de la presse qui suce des jeux de merde comme rdr2 &cie moi je persiste et signe que ce ghost of tsushima est 100 plus intéressant qu'un rdr2 sur tout les points.
Sucker Punch no es un estudio poderoso a nivel de Imsomniac ni Santa Monica, pero si que quieren llegar al siguiente nivel ya,les deseo mucha suerte en su futuro como desarrolladores y espero que sigan trabajando en PlayStation para seguir disfrutando de estos juegos.

keren abis, nga nyesel po mahal2. battle system nya ok banget terutama pas lawan bos2, pemandangan yang indah banget sepanjang jalan hampir semua bisa jadi objek photo. mudah2an dibuat sekuel nya.
Ce jeu est fantastique. Meilleure exclu ps4 pour moi. La beauté des décors, l'utilisation très intelligente de la couleur et de la lumière et l'ambiance en font une perle rare. De plus gameplay interessant.Jeu culte à faire absolument.
I'm 10 hours in an loving this game alread! Great story. Interesting side quest. Enjoyable world exploration. Fun combat with enough depth to keep it interesting but not overwhelm the casual gamer like me. Top quality scenery and graphics. I'm playing the game with Japanese voice over an subtitles for the immersive experience. Unfortunately the lip movements are done for the English voice acting and not the Japanese voice over. This can be distracting during cut scenes but it's not enough to put me off the game.


FINALLY A MAGNIFICENT GAME! This is GOTY material. Excellent job Sucker Punch let the dumb far left "critics"get payed to trash the game about "cultural appropriation"(It does not exist), real gamers will praise you and have fun with your creation.
This game is absolutely incredible. The world, the combat, the feel. Everything about this game is top notch. The story is great and characters have depth. The game never drags as the combat is so darn fun! I recommend this game to everyone who enjoys open world games
Me parece un juego perfecto gráficamente y la fluidez que tiene los combates me enamoraron y el mapa es extremadamente grande amo a Ghost of Tsushima debería ser GOTY!



Let me start by saying as an avid Martial Arts and Samurai Film enthusiast, this game ABSOLUTELY nails that aesthetic. This game is immense, but beautiful to traverse through. Each side mission or side task, all has a point that fits seemingly well into the game. Each side task also fits in with tales and lore of Japanese culture. This game is beautifully made and it isnt afraid to show that with its amazing Kurosawa mode, that takes you into a black and white color version of the game to make you feel like youre watching an old cinematic movie. Half the time i didnt want to turn Kurosawa mode because it was like watching an original Samurai movie and it just fit so well. Through playing i couldnt find any negatives, the mechanics can be a little wonky and the rag doll can be silly, but this games positives overwhlem the negatives. If youre a fan of true to reality Japanese and Samurai Culture or martial arts films in general, do NOT hesitate, youre missing out on an orginal masterpeice. This game has secured its self in my top 10 of all time. Easily..
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the most breathtakingly beautiful games I have ever played. It's amazing, romantic scenery had me stopping hundreds of times and I have never used the camera feature as much in any other game. Visuals 10/10. The story itself was amazing and I loved the gameplay itself. Perhaps one of the biggest compliments I can give this game is how absorbed I became in Jin's story and how personal it felt. This is one of the few games where I became personally invested in a character. My only nitpick was how when using the Japanese audio with English subtitles the dialogue animation was out of sync.

Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing game. Story is flushed out beautifully and characters are designed with thought, unlike TLOU 2. The game did research into the Japanese culture to make sure they got it right. Beautiful graphics, sound, gameplay, EVERYTHING!! Make time for this game, everyone is enjoying it,
It is a 10 for me, is artistic and the fights are cool. im still playing i will come back for this review. -Im back so the graphics are not perfect in a photo realistic way they are perfect in an artistic way -The gameplay is good they made so that the fact that you have a sword you one shot people without armour but those armored need more hits depending if they have baboo armour they need cca. max 3 hits and if they have metal armour they need up to six - The story is good and a saw people comparing to assassin's creed but without teaching you history. This game is not made to teach you history it is an made of story inspired from the Mongolian invasion not the actual recreation of the historical event and if you want to compare it to The last of us 2: it is a story told from another party perspective. People complaining about being a cookie cutter revenge plot they are wrong tlou2 was a cookie cutter revenge plot but boring and useless GHOST is a story about a lost worrior who in order to save people he needs to go against everything he was taught and everything his believes stood for. He doesn't know if the ways that he was taught works against his enemies - The world its not boring and empty how jurnalists say, you have alot to do in the world aside for the story and i am glad that its not overcrowded with pointless npcs just to use up my **** console performance. and being sort of empty and silent drags me even more in the beautifully looking world's atmosphere - The enemies are not dumb they are generic same as in tlou2 just in Ghost they dont **** scream in your ears to force you to feel guide and they dont have level they have other patterns and tehniques to fight you. And if its to easy for you change the difficulty lol dont play it on easy as i bet most journalists did. VERDICT : its a beautifully crafted world with a good "lost identity and questioning your believes to do good" story with alot of tought and love put into it with a not **** large open world map that it actually feels like a videogame and not a bad movie with gameplay being an add in-between. This is a GAME made to be played and enjoyed not made to tell a message

While im not someone who gets too excited for games. This game is probably one of the best games i've played on Ps4. I would say it reminds me of a mix of games such as the Yakuza games with the ability to change the fighting styles on the fly to suit the many types of enemies, a bit of Far cry with its open world as well as assassins creed however this does not come with the Ubisoft acidity that you see with some games that have tried the formula in the past but failed. Story wise its good with a clear story that is well told with a selection of characters that while not groundbreaking it is still good. Graphics wise probably the best i've seen on the PS4 hardware and is more of a colourful game compared to other flagship games on the PlayStation. In conclusion its everything i wanted from a game of this calibre there are issues i have but most of them are bugs that can be patched. Also those who are saying "Americans should not make a game about Japanese " like Digitally Downloaded said. The perfect famitsu score explains itself and generally it is a faithful recreation of the Japanese landscape. The game is not a historical documentary but so was not games like Yakuza 0 with the 80's bubble culture or Black ops with the 60's. a video game is for entertainment at the end of the day.
This is literally one of the best open world games i have ever played. I fully support skill up's review. This games does not have the best lighting, graphics, vision and etc. But overall it look unbelivable. Combat is so good, that i even stopped doing the main quest and went to play side quests. The combat accesibility and upgrades could be compared to god of war. I have not finished the main plot and i dont need to because in this kind of a games gameplay plays the main role. In god of war you felt like god. In ghost of tsushima you feel like you are samurai. GOTY
This game is like an amazing combination of Breath of the Wild with it's open word and exploration and Assassin's Creed with it's combat. Its a wonderful game for any fans of samurai moves or those who are looking for a good game to sink hundreds of hours into
The game was absolutely unreal! Theres not one bad thing about it. I could not put it down and that hasnt happened to in a long time! Easy 10 for me. Now to go for platinum!!!


The details in the game is great. Feels a bit like far cry series but in japan. Story is good. Gameplay wise feels like tenchu and assassin's creed put together.
This is the best game game that I have played this year OMG or maybe all my life I have no word of how beautiful is this game just 10/10 from my point of view I enjoy this game very much

Melhor grafico Melhor arte visual Mecanica do jogo muito boa lembra alguns jogos do passado mais com elementos dessa geração,poucos bugs mais simples correçao
Best PS4 exclusive since GoW. Combat is amazing, Exploration feels natural. Side quests are very well written. Map is reasonably big. Please get this game. Its a breath of fresh air.

I'm around 16 hours or so in the game and I'm in love. After the tutorial section you're thrown into this beautiful open world. There is no level gating so you're able to freely explore without the fear of overleveled enemies killing you in one hit. I'm playing on Hard difficulty and the combat plays smoothly and feels satisfying. Having the choice of stealth or walking into enemy territory and confronting them with a standoff is epic. Tons of rewards to gain from exploring, paying attention to your environment, and following animal guides throughout the game. If you even remotely enjoy samurai related content, get this game.
Sony has done it again! Major props to Sucker Punch who made a perfect realistic Samurai game that gamers have been waiting eagerly and anxiously for since its teaser premier years ago at E3. This is the game we needed after the latest controversial Sony exclusive that had the fanbase devided. 2020 is not over yet but Ghost of Tsushima is thus far my game of the year. It has earned a 10 out of 10!
What a beautiful game, it's breathtaking. The gameplay is smooth and the frame rate good. The combat is fun aswell.It's really amazing that the PS4 even late in its life is bringing games like this out. Masterpiece
I took a little risk pre ordering this game but my faith paid off. I went in with okay expectations and the minute I got on that horse and went into the world of Tsushima I was shocked at how GREAT this game is. The world has a perfect balance of many things to do and has an incredible rewarding RPG system with a story of Hope and Redemption and incredible graphics for such a massive world! If you’re skeptical Let me assure you there’s no need to wait any longer so go grab this Sony Masterpiece!
Es un juego excelente! Incluso ha tenido buena crítica en el país Nipón y eso habló en influyó mucho en que lo comprase y valorase de otra manera. Me ha sorprendido para bien pues ante algunas críticas me esperaba que el juego sería simple y fue todo lo contrario, a pesar de que tiene sus errores como todo juegocentra muy bien los aspectos de combate e historia. Estoy encantado y comprendo las comparaciones pero no son muy precisas.si te gusta Japón, samurais y mundo abierto vas a flipar!
I have been playing video games for almost my whole life and honestly this is the first game in awhile (since maybe when Bioshock released) that I've played that has really immersed and amazed me. This is the most beautiful looking game i have ever played, i caught myself just sitting and looking around the world many times instead of playing because the scenery is absolutely gorgeous. The cut-scenes look stunning and are well directed and acted for both the Japanese and English voices, however lip syncing was done for the English version so it looks bad with the Japanese audio so there's that. The game-play is addicting, managing to be challenging enough without feeling unfair, feels satisfying when you are able to take on groups of enemies parrying and changing stances on the fly especially without taking damage. The stealth for me was serviceable if not a little easy however it feels like something they can patch and fix, luckily i didn't have many problems or bugs like a few others may have had. The narrative is really intriguing if you are into Japanese samurai culture and even if you aren't this game may get you interested, each character is well written and believable, especially the protagonist Jin who's actions throughout the game conflict with his samurai code, his way of life and cause problems. The side content is unique and just as interesting as the main story and if you love collectibles this game has you covered in spades with many of them spread throughout the map. The costumes and weapons as well as the skins you can get for them are really well designed and fun to collect too, first game in a long time that doesn't charge you for all the cosmetics. All in all this is a game well worth it's asking price, filled with fun content, a stunning world to explore, great game-play loop, respectful to the culture and history it is portraying (taking inspiration from classic samurai films by Akira Kurosawa and the like, loved Kurosawa mode) and is a perfect game to end this generation of PlayStation on. Sucker Punch made something special here and really gave their all so they deserve great praise for it. Only thing i hope they add in is a New Game Plus+ mode where you can replay and keep all cosmetics, upgrades and collectibles to have a fun and chill, cathartic play-through.
Amazing game, a very good story. Combat/gameplay is fun, could get challenging but not to challenging. side quests are entertaining, but some could get a bit repetitive, camera could get weird at time. The soundtrack is beautiful and the atmosphere is also beautiful. Overall an awesome experience and an amazing game. Would recommend buying
Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing open world game that not only lets you explore the entire island of Tsushima but it makes you feel like a samurai and that’s what I love in a game is when they make you feel as if you were the character. The combat in ghost of Tsushima is amazing they give you 4 different stances with different types of skill sets the games story is not only amazing but tell a great story about the mogul invasion in the 13th century. The games exploring and experience is immersing and you get go to these camps set up by mogul and why you take all of them out you give the people back their village and I love how the game makes you feel like a hero.
the game is extremley beutiful with its vast map with lots of things to do but it doesnt feel bloated.The games opening is wonderful.there are a few things like some npcs repeatedly falling,i find that hilarious but you may not.the combat is some of the best i have ever seen.If you have the money you should buy this game

After playing for +25 hours here’s my breakdown of visuals, gameplay and story. Summary: “What you see is what you get” and Sucker Punch has delivered exactly that. A rich, beautiful, fun and massive world to explore based on samurais and insanely detailed Japanese culture. I had no second thoughts on pre-ordering this game and calmly waited for the last half hour into the last second anxious to start the game. Visuals: 10/10 Ghost of Tsushima is set during the first mongol invasion which on it’s own sets a very high bar for ANY historically recreated battles of any game ESPECIALLY foreign history. Sucker Punch has done an incredible job even with minor details such as Jin’s attire becoming muddy while treading through muddy trails and shallow rivers. I enjoyed riding to many of the missions and side quests with Kage (my selected horse) or on foot given how much detail was put into the flora and fauna such as deers, bears, boars and guiding birds. Gameplay: 9/10 Even though Ghost of Tsushima utilizes a souls-like combat system with some unique elements such as stances that can easily break your enemies guard’s depending on their weaponry, it shows us that a good defense is sometimes the best offense which I don’t often follow and there were many, many times I have found myself out of health and resolve only to be finished off and trying harder the next time around. A bit of advice from me to you is that you MUST upgrade Jin’s arsenal as you progress or it will delay your progress quite a bit. Also, don’t believe the “clunky” controls negative reviews because the only thing I found frustrating about the controls were just the difficulty of switching from bow to bombs to bells and bow again. Story: 10/10 Storytelling is often the bread and butter of ANY story driven game even to the likes of The Last of Us Part II which I feel was shoved aside in order to introduce new characters that failed to connect with the majority of audiences but I digress. This retelling of a fictional story in a historical event could be seen as a divisive experience but with incredible culture depiction of the settings it comes off as organic to me and just nails it perfectly. Being the last samurai of his clan, Jin must battle with having to break the code of samurai in order to defend the island of Tsushima from these foreign invaders and regain his honor. Sucker Punch has once again succeeded in making a great decision making game.
Putting aside the virtues of Ghost of Tsushima everybody recognizes, this game story and characters are way better than advertised and, most importantly, it's a BLAST to play. Also, I don't get why some critics deduct points because it doesn't innovate in the open world genre. First of all, some of my favorite games are titles that perfected well known formulas. But secondly, Ghost of Tsushima exudes personality from the clean HUD, the organic traversal and exploration systems, activities you can do in the world, combat variety, etc. Do yourself a favor and play it.

Played 6 hours, I find it amazing how just a couple of simple changes to the open world genre have revitalised the experience, I’m getting lost in the world and loving it. The combat is well put together, and improving with every upgrade, the sensory overload from the visuals and music are breathtaking. I’m enjoying the main story, but my favourite parts are the side quests that I naturally stumble upon. I would recommend this game to anyone who enjoys games like Breath of the Wild.
The game is just amazing beautiful graphics solid gameplay and combat. The story really gets you hooked and lots of customization options. The games map is pretty big with lots of hidden secrets and areas to explore and sidequests. You can customize not just by unlocking new gear and upgrading but you can also change the color scheme of your gear without having to pay extra to unlock new color schemes. Being able to play both as a noble samurai or as the dishonorable ghost really opens up more ways to deal with the invaders. Sucker Punch has Definitely outdone themselves with this game. Truly game of the year worthy.
Definitely the best looking PS4 game, Nearly everything is top tier in this game except I find climbing pretty bad, the AI can sometimes be dumb and few other nit picks is why the game didnt get a 10 from me
The most beautiful game of the generation. An outstanding game that transports you to the time of the samurais like no other. Everyone should play this wonder, whether you are a fan of the genre, or video games in general.
Excelente juegazo excelente jugabilidad,excelente ambientación y muy buena la banda sonora y parece a los assasin s creed de antes muy bueno la verdad. Hay dos finales y los dos son excelentes.
I'm a Simple guy and going to be honest about my experience so far in 20 hrs in the game with alot of side quests completed, this game is Fantastic and honestly will compete with GOTY with cyberpunk 2077. I still can't believe how big of a disappointment TLOU2 was but this game freshend my mind up :)

I came into Ghost of Tsushima expecting a game based around the struggles of a lone protagonist and his personal war with an invading army with all the cliches of an old Samurai movie. I was given far more than that with this game. The combat is solid, simple yet complex, satisfying yet somewhat frustrating at times. The small details Sprinkled into this game absolutely round it out into a stunning 9/10 in my rating system. The game transports me onto the war torn Island of Tsushima, a now lawless place terrorized by the invading Mongol army. Walking the forests and country side of Tsushima gives off a fantastic feeling of being in a samurai movie with all the trimmings, from the open grasslands to the denser forests covered in fallen leaves. The characters Ive met on my journey are interesting and voice acted incredibly well in both Japanese and English. Traversal of the world is very good from the assassins creed-like way you scale cliffs and overlooks to the guiding winds which at first I thought would be an annoyance but Ive found it an incredible way to traverse rather than constantly having to stare at a mini map or an Icon on the horizon. It all serves to never break my immersion in the game and to keep me in this beautifully crafted world. I look forward to playing more and replaying the game once I finish. This game wins my personal seal of approval and everyone involved in its creation deserves a standing ovation and praise beyond anything my humble review brings. I bow to you all. And to those reading this I thank you for taking my opinion into account. I recommend this game HIGHLY. Find a way to play it. DEATH TO THE MONGOL INVADERS!
This is a fantastic open world game that allows you to breathe in Tsushima. The world is vibrant and colorful. The combat is excellent. The music is perfect. The immersion is deep. The side quests are compelling. It strikes a perfect balance between art, story, Japanese cinema appreciation and still allowing you to remember it is a video game, which is okay, because it is one. I’m very happy with my purchase and recommend it to those who like top tier open world games and/or really good samurai games.
Отличная боевка, шикарная атмосфера, большое количество проработанных персонажей, добротный сюжет, невероятный визуал - вот неполный список плюсов этой игры. Конечно, в плане геймплея игра не сможет удивить матёрых геймеров вроде меня, у которых за спиной больше трех сотен пройденных игр. Но лично для меня, это игра года!
Amazing game! Superb graphics, awesome combat and nice gameplay loop. The exploration is great too. Not the most awesome story and has some quirks. But all in all I felt like I was in Japan of the bygone eras and I really felt like a Samurai/Ninja.
Anyone who wants to dive into a living, breathing and a beautiful story driven samurai world set during the mongol invasion, this is for you. I went in with high expectations and yet this game surpassed all of them. The combat is one of the best things about the game apart from the picturesque vistas and memorable side quests and other activities. Wanna cut down bamboos?, wanna take a nice, relaxing bath in a hot spring?, wanna just explore the vast expanse of Tsushima and take breathtaking pictures using photo mode?, or are you out to avenge the deaths of your family and take back the island of Tsushima from mongols?, this game has got you covered.! My best ps4 exclusive so far.
Ghost of Tsushima is the most gorgeous game in this generations and one of the best open-world games I’ve ever played ,beside the the beautiful graphics the gameplay is so epic and badass with so much variety and uniqueness ,it’s a must buy game you will have the best fun .

Pros: - The game is beautiful, very cinematic, with an amazing photography. If you really enjoy those old samurai movies, there's the Kurosawa mode which makes the game black and white which i'm leaving for a second play through. - Combat is very satisfying, with responsive mechanics and the more styles you unlock the better it gets. - Story is very well written, at least the main campaign. Cons: - Enemy AI kinda sucks, the dumb kind of enemy. Not game breaking, but sure could use a patch. - Stealth is fun, but kinda basic, if you are in this for it, you will probably get a bit frustrated. - Side quests are very basic, not the repetitive kinda, but there's not much dept, its a far cry from The Witcher, for example. But the mythical quest are very good. To be honest, the review would be a solid 9, but since i liked i will be giving it a 10.
Sidequests on par with The Witcher 3, a world as beautiful and immersive as RDR2, combat as engaging and satisfying as Sekiro (and very much it's own thing). Fantastic soundtrack, deep reverence towards Japanese culture/traditions, the best photo mode ever and so much more, Ghost is a strong contender for my favourite PS4 game ever!
One of the best game in 2020 the history the gameplay the open world the view are awesome the side quest are excellent the weapons armors sets and the skills are perfect,go buy it and play this masterpiece right now 10 of 10
Jin's conflict itself is very interesting and a great base for a video game. It is one that allows us to explore, from a historical perspective, to what extent war puts us in an extreme situation in which we have to sacrifice our ideals. And if the sacrifice of those ideals turns us into another person, in the process. The premise is good and the game seeks to make you participate in this duality.


One of the best PS4 exclusives , this is PlayStation studios's first open world a la Ubisoft type game and as all the rest of the PS exclusives were hailed as best in class in their own genre , sucker punch nails it masterfully with a majestically beautiful open world with top tier sword combat and with tons to do .


Every time I launch this game, I take at least 15-20 screenshots per session. I am amazed by the visual that the developers have recreated, reflecting all the popular beauty of Japan, albeit a little embellished. I was very pleased with the samurai setting and the way it was correctly presented, without going too deep into historicity, with juicy combat, cult references, small but very attractive details and a vivid antagonist, whose fate is also interesting to watch. I like to go through games in an open world leisurely, enjoying every minute (hello RDR 2), and in this game you can really meditate while you are regularly riding a horse under the falling sakura leaves ...
This game is amazing!! Truly captivating to look at. I have never played a game straight through while also losing track of time. For 60 bucks this game is an absolute masterpiece!!
A good story, amazing enviorments, nice open worldlarge photo mode options, amazings sword play. i love this game it´s intresting and intruiging you truly feel like your there you just get sucked in by suckerpunch´s masterpiece.
This game has a story that makes you FEEL like a Samurai. From killing Monguls to return rice to a Peasant Woman (who lied about it being hers!) to going on a killing spree to avenge the death of an entire clan from traitors, this game has so many stories that really make you feel like a Samurai. I struggled with other open world games that seem to be HUD intensive and took your eye of the game environment. This game does the opposite. The wind and the particles of dust, leaves and flowers flow in the direction of the next objective. You can assign skill points to make this wind go to more specific things too, making this a collector's dream. The combat is insanely good. It is intense and requires thinking and speicifc styles (that are easy to change between) that you will get as you level up. The health system is also refreshing too. Overall, this game is what I would call the pinnacle of open world game maturity. It's like Sucker Punch played the best open world games and made this game like them but better. Everything about it implies that the game makers wanted a great user experience.
고스트 오브 쓰시마는 내가 2020년에 했던 게임 중 최고다. 이 게임의 장점은 빠른 로딩, 전략적이고 재밌는 근접 전투, 맵이 없는 대신 동물이나 바람이 맵의 역활을 해주는 참신함(이 시스템은 다른 오픈월드에도 도입하면 좋겠다. 이런 시스템은 게임에 몰입을 한층 더해준다), 마치 전쟁 영화같은 수준높은 연출력, 높은 칼질 타격감, 화려한 자연 경관과 동물 그래픽, 높은 몰입감, 1대1 칼싸움 전투라는 참신하고 새로운 방식의 전투, 젤다의전설 야생의 숨결(The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild)을 보는 것같은 모험 요소이다. 고스트 오브 쓰시마의 가장 큰 재미는 근접 전투입니다. 그 정도로 이 게임을 하는 이유는 오로지 칼싸움이라고도 할 수 있을 정도로 전투 하나만으로도 충분히 할만한 게임이. 드래곤볼의 손오공이나 나루토가 된 것처럼 날라다니는 그런 액션이 아니다. 마치 '고스트 오브 쓰시마'의 액션은 무겁고 철저하게 정적이고 현실적이고, 그래서 더욱 타격감이 뛰어나게 느껴진다. 이러한 일련의 과정을 통해 '고스트 오브 쓰시마'는 강렬하고 진중한 가운데 화려한 액션을 선보이는 게임들 못지않은, 아니 그보다 더 강렬한 '칼맛'을 선사한다. 이런 점들을 종합해 보면 화려한 액션은 아니지만, 오히려 더 실제 칼싸움 같은 박진감 넘치는 칼싸움이다. 이 검 1번의 공격으로 내가 죽을지 아니면 적이 죽을지 모르는 언제 죽을지 모르는 그런 긴장감이 있다. '수준높은 근접 전투와 뛰어난 타격감' 딱 그것이다. 그래서 전투씬 하나만 보더라도 실제 칼싸움 영화를 방불케할 정도로 눈을 즐겁게 한다. 근접 전투는 무겁고, 타격감이 있고 전략적이게 재밌게 잘 만든것같다. 한국, 외국의 모든 리뷰어들이 하나같이 근접 전투가 뛰어나다고 칭찬하는 이유를 알 것 같다. 그리고 무엇보다 젤다의전설 야생의 숨결(The Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild)처럼 내가 실제로 게임을 모험하는 기분이 들어서 좋았고, 내가 쓰시마의 수호신이 된듯 한 기분이 든다. 쓰시마의 모든 자연과 동물들과 친구가 될수 있다. 플레이타임도 결코 짧지 않다. 게임을 플레이한 후에도 계속 할수있다. 그래서 이 게임을 한 번 하게되면 너무나 할게 많다. 앞으로도 고스트 오브 쓰시마처럼 수준 높은 근접전과 뛰어난 타격감, 멋있는 영화같은 연출력을 보여주는 게임은 나오지 않을 것이다. 이대로면 고스트 오브 쓰시마가 최다 2020년 최다 고티(Game of the Year)를 수상하게 될 것이다. The ghost of Tsushima was the best game I ever played in 2020. The advantages of the game are its fast loading, strategic and interesting close-up battles, and novelty in which animals or winds serve as maps instead of maps (which should also introduce systems to other open worlds). The system adds more concentration to the game with a high sense of stabbing, as if it were a war movie, as if it were a war movie. The colorful natural scenery, animal graphics, high immersion, and one-on-one gladiators are adventurous elements, such as seeing the "Legend of Zelda: Wild Breath." It's not the act of flying around like Sonokong or Naruto in Dragon Ball. It seems as if the work of "Ghost of Tsushima" is heavy, thoroughly static and realistic, giving it a more impressive feeling. Through this series of processes, "The Ghost of Tsushima" presents a powerful and serious "knife action" like a game featuring colorful action. It's not a fancy action, but rather a more realistic sword fight. This tension is on me, and I don't know if I'll die in this knife attack, or when the enemy will die. This is the first time since Sekiro that he has "excellent sense of high-level close combat and hitting." So I praise you very much. So just watching the battle scenes makes my eyes happy, reminiscent of a real sword fight movie. I think close range is heavy, aggressive and strategic. One can see why all critics at home and abroad praise the close race for excellence. And most of all, like the legend of Zelda (the breathing of the beast), I felt like I was actually enjoying adventure in the game, and I felt like I was the guardian of Tsushima. You can make friends with all the nature and animals in Tsushima. Playtime is never short. I can go on after playing a game. So I have so much work to do after this game. In the future, there will be no games like Ghost of Tsushima that show high-quality close combat, outstanding sword action, or cool film-like directing skills. At this rate, Ghost of Tsushima will win the most games of the year in 2020.

Невероятно красивая игра! С момента релиза играл в нее сутки напролет, а когда надоедало бегать по сторонним квестам и зачищать карту, то сюжетная линия с своим эпиком возвращала мой восторг на ту де планку!
The game is awesome beautiful settings always wanted a samurai game with best mechanics and this game trust me delivers with all the content secrets side activities everything the only complaint is the walking animation and missing of rag doll physics everything else is on point and I am loving it
Над этой игрой, точнее над еë картинкой работал сам Иисус, это самая красивая в плане освещения игра (после RDR2, конечно)


Have you ever dreamed of being a samurai which sole purpose was to defend his own country in a time of tumultuous warfare? Well then, you're in luck! Look no further and buy Ghost of Tsushima (a videogame which some might even consider a work of art given its absolute stunning beauty) and be the badass the world deserve!
I get lost in this game. I have to tear myself away from it. This is what games should be about. Getting lost in them. Forgetting everything else for awhile. GOTY for me!
Game has amazing graphics with such a beautiful enviroment to explore. It does not look like is bringin something new to the Open World genre at first but after playing it definitely feels like it does bring a completely new experience. The action is kind of adictive for some reason I just love getting into sword fights in this game meaning I am not doing so much sneak gameplay but I also like the sneak gameplay and they created a balance that you can enjoy both sword fighting and assassin style together. I am enjoying this game so much and I am giving it a 10 also because to me the perfect games are the games that I can't wait to get home from work to play. And that is what Ghost of Tsushima does not every game gives me this feeling.
This game is a love letter to Japanese history, art and culture. My favourite game of the year so far. The graphics and gameplay are excellent and still look amazing on my slim PS4. 110% worth every penny!

This game is beautiful, tenderly crafted, high quality, dynamic,... I love spending time in this beautiful island full of stories, characters, amazing combats, wonderful side quests,...I’d suggest playing it in hard mode. The experience is absolutely stunning.
افضل لعبة لسنة ٢٠٢٠ بدون منازع عشرة من عشرة تقييمي للعبة شكرا Sucker punch اتمنى لكم التوفيق

I really enjoyed GoT. An absolutely stunning looking game, that feeling like the Witcher 3 set in Japan. The combat is really fun, but not quite Dark Souls/Sekrio/Bloodborne level. Every time I put this game down, I just get excited about playing again. Graphics 10 Combat 9 Story 9

Ghost of TSUSHIMA is a gorgeous video game., there are tons of breathtaking landscapes and places, with an excellent and intriguing story and a very fun battle system. It's noteworthy that the frame rate is very stable, and there are few loading screens (I played this game on a playstation pro console, so I never saw a drop in frame rate or long loading screens). All in all, Ghost of Tsushima is a must for every playstation 4 owner. Finally, I also have to remark its photo mode. Sometimes I spent a lot of time taking photographs here and there, since the world that SuckerPunch built is actually very beautiful, its cherry-trees, waterfalls, flowers, animals, everything in this game deserves to be immortalized in a photograph. So, go buy this game, take as much as pictures as you can, enjoy its story and have fun killing mongols in the 9th century.
Amazing game, very fluid animations, incredible voice acting, and stunning graphics. With a compelling story, characters and beautiful environments and soundtrack, it truly makes any player feel fully Immersed. Has a very classic Japanese Samurai cinema feel, and is so fun to explore and play. With great and challenging combat, to amazing landscapes, I don’t think there’s anything not to love about this game
A stunning and immersive. So much is right that only those wanting to find fault will be able to. Very few games are released this well polished. The bar has been set for game of the year.
This game is absolutely breathtaking when it comes to its visuals. I actually go slow on horseback because of the scenery. I never do that in any game I've ever played. The gameplay is superb as well.
One of the best games I’ve played in a long time. Absolutely beautiful world building from Sucker Punch. This will be one of those games that I’ll remember years from now.
Ghost of Tsushima - My Review I've played Ghost of Tsushima over 20 hours, the game has plenty of content, im constantly distracted by the environment, the game is gorgeous. Everytime i plan to do a main mission i get distracted by others stuff like side missions etc... The game tries to keep you hooked, fo real. I like the new open world design approach, Sucker Punch did a good job creating a world that tries to encourage you to explore. Im not going to spoil you anything but i really do recommend you guys explore the world. Because if you dont explore the world, you'll miss alot of cool stuff. From cosmetic to new abilities etc... The Combat system reminds me of Assassin's Creed: Unity. Its quite challenging tbh. Its not Dark Souls level of difficulty (Thank god) but its fairly balanced. You have 4 types of enemies with each their own fighting style like spears, Brutes, Swords & Archer... The way you counter their moves is by using different Samurai stances, its a neat feature and you can upgrade each stances, again you need to play the game to unlock the new stances by exploring the world and doing side missions. However. The game does suffer from the same open world formula, the game has some random encounters like bandit trying to block the road and fight you. Or the mongols attacking you out of nowhere etc... I get it, sucker punch are trying hard to make the world a bit more interactive but it gets repetitive after 10 hours of play. Tbh thats my only downside of the game. Overall: I think its worth a buy, i really recommend you buy the game, its a massive world with TONS of content, the combat is really fun & challenging. Sucker punch made a big leap from Sly Cooper, Infamous & now Ghost of Tsushima. Ggs Sucker Punch!﻿
Beautiful graphics, gameplay mechanics are fun.. The surrounding world is amazing.. and love that you could put it in Japanese subtitles, and go black and white as well..
Um dos melhores jogos que já joguei e estou jogando! Esperei anos e anos por um jogo como esse. Desde que assisti “O Último Samurai” tive um sonho de jogar o filme, não é exatamente como o filme mas o sentimento é o mesmo! Para quem ama a cultura Japonesa e curte games de RPG esse game é perfeito, não tenho do que reclamar.. apenas chuvas de elogios. Obrigado SuckerPunch por tornar um sonho de muitos realidade, meus sinceros agradecimentos!
Graphics on my old ps4 wow amazing stuff at the end of the systems lifecycle and the game is assassin's creed done very very well with samurai great stuff my only gripes are weapon variety and lack of lock on ability after tlou2 politically correct rubbish game which has totally destroyed a franchise this is a breath of fresh air well done sucker punch
Loved the game start to finish! Story was engaging, the world flowed well with always something to do around the next corner and the superb soundtrack gave the game a very natural atmosphere.

Sony saves the best for last! I can't believe this is the last PS4 exclusive, Wow such a good way to end this generation. This game definitely brings some joy, This is really the closing of a chapter and now I am excited to see what the future holds for the next gen consoles, Side note I feel a bit sad because the current Metacritic score of 83 somehow doesn't feel right for the ghost of tsushima IMHO I think this is an 85+ without a doubt. -Great story -Remarkable graphics -Good control mechanics -Decent trophy list -Lovely soundtrack Arigatō Sucker punch studios, best regards Cleo.

None of the negative critic reviews do this game justice, you have to experience this in all its beauty and delight for yourself. My personal game of the year so far. Amazing!

Stunningly beautiful, extremely satisfying combat, engaging story with top class side quests which are better written than plenty of open world games’ main quest lines and to top it off, the game runs extremely smoothly with astonishing graphics and incredible sound design. Can’t recommend this one more!
A Very good game. It kinda bright me hack to the time when I play Assassin’s Creed Odyssey, which I enjoyed a lot. Gorgeous art and stunning scenery.
I played about 20 hours and I'm going to continue playing, the game is delightful in many parameters: the setting of Japan, such as combat, the design of the world and the locations themselves, 1vs1 sword fighting are made in such a way that there is a feeling of watching a movie about samurai. This is the first game after RDR 2, which so attracted with its open world that for the first 10 hours I ran from question to question and a similar situation with additional tasks. About additional tasks: from the point of structure, run-find-kill-bring, they are not ideal, then from the point of morality - they are gorgeous and show all the problems inherent in war and its cruelty. But the additional branches of the plot characters are much more interesting: due to the emotions of the characters around Jin and, as I said before, the cruelty of the war. I can't say anything special about the plot, except that it is interesting to watch the main character and watch his worldview changes. Graphics are good, but shadows sometimes look strange on objects in sunny weather, or so it seems to me (?). As a result, I can say the game is gorgeous, but with problems that at least do not bother me. I bet the game its deserved 9/10
One word - incredible. Unfortunately I didn't liked sekiro because I don't like games like dark souls so I was really waiting for something like this for a very long time, and I really wanted Sony to succeed and give us the same usual single player quality we get on their top tittles. Thank you Sony and sucker punch !
For me the best game of 2020, it is missing to see Cyberpunk, but at the moment the best. Their scenarios are the best that I have seen in a long time. You can see the care and love with which they played the game. Of course, there are many things to polish that ruin the game, but there are more positive than negative things that completely obscure the bad things that the game has
A real masterpiece! The graphic is so beautiful and the colors are perfect. The Gameplay is great, too. Ghost of Tsushima is a full openworld, not just at the beginning like TLOUP2! But the best on the game is the Story ! It doesn't give you a PTSD syndrome like Last of Us 2!



We have been too critical of games lately. Criticism for every aspect. GOT is one of the less souls like samurai games that can be played and enjoyed by every type of gamer. Exquisite in its craft, sucker punch delivered an amazing game set in a. Amazing setting. 10/10

The game amazes with its atmosphere, the setting itself plays an important role. The game is insanely beautiful, impresses with its detail and attention to detail. Grafon does not bring something into the gaming industry, but by no means a breakthrough in this segment. I can say quite objectively if you buy this game it will not disgrace you
What? Another case of professional reviewers absent minded and out of touch with community gamers. This is one of the most fluid , stunning and magnificent games to date. The combat is spectacular and everything goes well to form a cohesive combative gameplay. The story is beautiful and invoking. Behind the screen they did everything right with almost no loading and story telling or a short clip of news while starting a combat sequence that is as seemless as it gets. This is a new standard. Think assassins creed with better combat story and fluid gameplay and meaningful upgrades.


this game is breathtaking, I’m one of those who get bored by the open world games because of the repetitiveness of the missions or sides. but this game I’m always finding myself doing something without even noticing, great job SP.

This game not only feels alive, but it is also the best depiction of the mongol invasion of Japan I have ever seen. The combat system is excellent, only the "samurai" way though, infiltration works as bad as in Assassin's Creed, but let's be real, noone is here for the infiltration. The graphics, while downgraded in relation to the original trailer, are still incredible and more than I ever thought PS4 would stand. Finally, the music is an 11/10, and fits perfectly in a very well narrated story. Overall this is one of the games I have enjoyed the most in PS4, way more than more recent overhyped titles.
Brrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrr Gave a 10 to see how tlou2 fans cry.
Urjsineeubdbejsbssjbsisbejsbsishsisbsineidsnisbsizjsjsibsjshsbsbsisbsjshshsuwbwjwbsiwbs

Ghost Of Tsushima is easily one of the best games i ever played! Cinematic open world experience and amazing and stunning graphics ... Combat is realstic and bloody and feels very very good Main story is very epic and have the best side quests after witcher 3 This game is a pure art :)
The best samurai game.good story,good gameplay,you all time use photo mode Because of the beautiful environment,Epic songs, Thanks to Sucker Punch and sony for give all a great game
Ghost of tsushima é um jogo de proporções épicas que nos faz emergir no mundo de samurais, com mecânicas espetsculates de combate é gráficos incríveis.
The gameplay is on point, the storyline is amazing, the visuals are beautiful, everything is just so good about this game and you can't know how good it really is until you play it, Its just such a good game and I highly recommend it to anyone and everyone. There is so much variety in your appearance and variety in where you can explore. 10/10 on everything about this game. Nothing negative about it either, you can change your difficulty to whatever you want and the way the game looks, like graphics and stuff and there are abilities that you can get throughout the game to make your experience that much more better. You play as a samurai, who wouldn't want to play as a samurai in a game where you do savage moves on enemies and help people in the process. If you don't want to fight, there is a whole island to explore and you can admire the beautiful scenery that the game has to offer. I made an account with metacritic just so I can put a review on this game, that's how good it is. Potential GOTY nomination.
고스트 오브 쓰시마는 매우 훌륭한 게임입니다. 세키로와 견줄 수 있을 정도로 검의 타격감도 훌륭하고, 근접 전투가 재밌습니다. 그리고 로딩 시간이 매우 빠릅니다. 무엇보다 게임에 등장하는 야생 동물들.. 붉은 여우와 황금색 새는 나의 훌륭한 동료가 되어주며, 말은 나의 전우이자 반려마입니다. 이 게임에는 게다가 어떤 쓸데없는 사상이나 개똥철학을 강조하지도 않습니다. 그저 묵묵하게 사무라이가 되어 전쟁을 해쳐나가는 고독한 늑대를 그려나갈 뿐이지요. The ghost of Tsushima is a very good game. Sekiro: Like the shadow Di Twice, kendo is good and close game is fun. And loading time is very fast. Most of all, the wild animals in the game... The red fox and the golden bird are my great friends, and the horse is my comrade and colleague. And this game doesn't focus on useless philosophy like any other uncomfortable game. The ghost of Tsushima silently portrays a lonely wolf who becomes a samurai and harms the war.

Everything about this game is just stunning. The graphics, the beautiful open world, the music, exploration and crafting. The combat feels so responsive and realistic and much better than for example in an assassin’s creed game.

Absolutely loving the game so far, would highly recommend! Sucker Punch has created one of the most beautiful game world's I've ever seen and the combat is a lot of fun.
You cant find a game that has a perfect combat and beautiful world like this, it's so enjoyable that I never get tired of playing it and I don't notice the time +perfect combat +Beautiful world and big map +so many side quests +best photo mod i have ever seen +good skill tree system with ao many options -moving and jumping from an edge to the othe edges could be better -enemy AI could be a little bit better and smarter but can get better with updates
Sucker Punch's best game yet. The story is awesome, the characters are good and the gameplay is satisfying and don't even get me started on the graphics. Those are unprecedented. Simply jaw dropping.


WOW WOW WOWWWW!!!! This game is absolutely Incredible!, the graphics, the game-play and the story, wow everything that i hoped it would be since i saw the trailer back in 2018, KUDOS to you Sucker Punch, incredibly beautiful open world and addicting game-play, wow this game is beautiful and entertaining.
Прекрасная игра, визуал просто на высоком уровне, хочется исследовать все и вся, давно такого я не испытывал в играх, очень доволен ей!
Game is even better than what I thought, the graphics, gameplay, story and characters are effing sweet. That's an exclusive and a game we need....not a political correctness with false advertisement garbage like the Last of Us 2 which was a big disappointment to lots of people, anyhow enough of this turd and let's stick to the topic... Ghost of Tsushima is polished and very detailed when it comes to design's, it's a living piece of art that gives a warm feeling when going through the game... very joyful samurai story with lots of emotional feelings into it and it worth getting on spot. I have to applaud for the development team who polished this treasure as an exclusive to remember before the end of PS4 lifecycle. Definitely deserves GOTY for 2020
One of the most beautiful open world games that you have played in this generation, the gameplay is elaborate and fun and the technical direction is great, the best conclusion of the PlayStation brand in this generation

This has been one of my best experience in games so far. Ghost brings an outstanding fresh take on the open world genre. With a well written story, interesting character development, fun side quest and the beautiful scenery. I love how they respect the Japanese culture and try to bring it has authentic as possible. One of the most engaging reasons to buy the game is the combat, Man is the combat fun! Makes want to be dueling every Mongol you see. Overall it's one of the best games of this generation.
El juego más bonito que he jugado en prácticamente toda mi vida, perderse en el juego es una de las mejores experiencias que he tenido nunca y el combate es extraordinario, entra en el top de los mejores exclusivos de PS4 y por supuesto de cara al futuro, es un aliciente más para elegir a PlayStation como consola de next gen.
This is how game should look like and feel like. No BS politics and agendas, just great story and gameplay with a lot of fun. Watch and learn ND, watch, and learn.
I'm loving this game! A refreshing take on some open world systems that really works. It's everything that I was hoping it would be, combat, visual, story. great game 10/10

This game is a work of art with its graphics, gameplay, world, atmosphere and story being a 10/10. Stunning game, unbelievably beautiful open world, game of the year.
Visualmente una gozada. Pocos juegos hacen que quieras pararlo a cada momentos. En la mayoría de casos siempre sacas el modo foto cuando haces un golpe o un movimiento guapo, este no... este solo quieres ver el cielo y las plantas desde otro ángulo. Recomendable y un cierre de generación de 10 para ps4
This game does it all for an open world game. And people compared this to assassin's creed but for got assassin creed borrowed from the sky copper series. A masterpiece worthy of a 10/10
Woah omg such a great game. The team put in such a great effort to produce such a fantastic game. Im very impressed with it. No political agenda just a great game.

El gran cierre de la PS4 si bien no es es mejor individualmente en nada es exelente como un todo y amalgamando todo lo aprendido en esta generación este si que es un imperdible bien merecido
What can you say about this game? A wonderful plot, good graphics, alas, sometimes a lame battle screen, when you jump out of the screen, or the scenery closes the view and the combatant itself, or when in battle you are not allowed to change the battle stance. But this is not super critical. There are still some bugs in the game, but they are minimal and do not affect the overall feel of the game. Overall score: Plot: 9 out of 10 ALL CHARACTERS are well spelled out and you understand their motivation. Graphics: I'm not a professional in this business, but I would say 7 out of 10. Everything is very beautiful, but sometimes you notice places where it could be done better. Gameplay: 8 out of 10. When you get used to the controls, all types of combat stances, strikes, blocks, you can conquer even the maximum difficulty. In general - This game is very addicting with its plot and you can easily get stuck in it for many hours. The graphics and combat are also up to par. Would I recommend buying it? If you love plots about Japanese history, then certainly!!
Great game!! A breath of fresh air among the sea of open world games. If some of the animations were better in the cutscenes, would have given a 10. Atmosphere, combat, gameplay 10/10.
how to start well the game is pretty good, the combat is fun and simple yet challenging, works really well, the art style is amazing with the world recreation being on point, the story is simple but solid with a good delivering. in sum the game is a good and fun recreation of the samurai lifestyle on japan.
I'll keep this short. I literally can not put this game down. I have to force myself to quit playing. From truly addicting combat to the overall beauty of this crafted world it truly is a masterpiece. It only loses a point for the occasional glitch and stutter. Other than that I recommend you buy it.
Combat is the best for an open world I’ve ever seen. Gameplay is kinetic, brutal, and incredibly satisfying once it clicks. Visuals are stunning. World is immersive. Story is compelling. Would be 10 out of 10, but a few glitches that (while hilarious at most times) can’t be overlooked. Amazing game!
Gorgeous game, excellent combat and open world exploration. There is no mini-map, you use the wind as your guide. If you ever wanted to see what being a samurai might really be like, this is it. Many enemies are killed in one hit as normal humans would be, and most others are killed in 2-4 hits. Love the authenticity and the atmosphere. Fantastic work, Sucker Punch!
Honestly a better Assassin's Creed - Huge map with quite a lot of content - Combat felt very smooth and alive - Story was told very well - The environment and music made the game very immersive - No micro-transactions - You can pet foxes - No politics/agenda forced in the game Pretty easy GOTY for 2020
Aside from visible technical glitches and cosmetic problems, Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing feat by Sucker Punch. The open world is beautiful and with incredible colors, providing striking views and atmosphere. You really can feel how much effort they put on this game to bring japanese historic culture to life with incredible amount of details, Sucker Punch did a lot of research on japanese ground to make things as genuine as possible. The gameplay is a mixture of exploration with intense combat that doesn´t feel cheap or to much easy (play this one on Hard mode, it gets even better). You will also have access to lots of customisation on your character to make your samurai as unique as it can be, playing as the honorable samurai or the sneaky ghost it will be up to you. Its a game that will constant amaze you based on its incredibly made atmosphere. Dont miss it.
What you can say about this game is that you can see all the potential it has. Graphics: The world itself looks really good, but the character models aren't up to the other PS exclusives standards. The wind and leaves stuff was overdone a bit but I can see some people enjoying that. Also on the character model stuff, they reuse the same models for enemy types. Combat: The combat is good, not great. Its repetitive, the stances work to counter certain enemies but you really dont do anything truly different, its just that stuff that didn't work against certain enemies works depending your stance. Plus, if you enjoy playing aggressively on combat, this might not be the game for you. Its a game about blocking, dodging, parrying and counters. The Duels are fun and a welcome addition to a combat I consider pretty underwhelming since Sucker Punch always makes really fun games. Story: The story is where I have the most issues. Its a predictable, generic, boring story. The characters and voice talent aren't on par with the Sony standard. Also, the story itself feels like Anime Fanfic. Or like whenever you watch non-Japanese anime (they always lack.. something..). It feels like they're trying too hard and the cliche's are everywhere. Its one of the most predictable games out there. Open World: The open world activities and just moving on it is really fun and the best part of the game. Its fun to ride around on your horse and follow Musician tales to end up with the divine strike or the Nagao armor. As a whole, the game is a good game, but its far from perfect or what Sony has as a standard. It also takes a lot from Assassins Creed and falls quite short from the last one (Odyssey). I think most of that stuff will be fixed on the sequel, but for now, this is a 7/10 IMO

This game is an absolute visual treat that also plays very well. The stealth isn't superb, but I barely want to use it anyway because swordplay is so well done. It has a good story that is masterfully presented, and the music is up there with gaming's best.
2020's best game... My most anticipated game since I saw the first trailer. And the game is a masterpiece as it is! Cannot say anything else, go and test it, you'll love it
Forget the beautiful graphics, the story is awesome and the setting is outstanding. This game needs to be played and i highly recommend you give Ghost of Tsushima a try.



Beautiful world and fun and entertaining to play and with Japan for me also a new and interesting scenario. When i read the critic reviews comparing this one to tlou2 and giving Ghost of Tsushima a worse rating, i can only say please get rid of the critics part. It's completely useless for people thinking about buying a game. They don't understand that gaming is about entertainment, not political education.
A generational game. Deep and very satisfying combat, eye-watering graphics and a true samurai story. A well deserved 10/10

Jogo muito bom, otimos gráficos, jogabilidade, som e diversão garantida, pra quem gosta de tema samurai, Japão feudal vai curtir muito, faltou um pouco de polimento nós gráficos e câmera mas nada que tire o brilho do jogo.
Это просто хорошая игра, в которой интересно драться и следить за историей. По поводу вторичности: как по мне, индустрии не хватает таких "обычных" игр без уклонов в гениальность. Days Gone - был великолепен несмотря на вторичность, ты просто забивал на эти "ух ты" и просто играл, и просто получал удовольствие, с Цусимой тоже самое. Эксклюзивы от Сони категории B? А почему бы и нет...
+Gameplay after time is very good but have some issues when multiple enemies and get confused to change between style and equipment +Graphic look good as art perspective +Music good +Story good -camra is not good and not lock to enemies -ai is ok -few epic moments
A very good game, the best things in the game is the combat and the exploration, history is good but not awesome, bad things i see is bugs and the game repets his self a lot times but with the combat it become very interisting.



Es un muy buen videojuego en el que se pasan las horas sin que te des cuenta. El simple hecho de perderse por el mapa se hace muy entretenido porque vas encontrando siempre cosas que hacer, y más aún viendo los bellos paisajes, ya que este es sin ninguna duda EL JUEGO MAS BONITO de la generación. Las misiones están bastante bien sobre todo las misiones principale, son bastante buenas, y algunas secundarias son bastante épicas. Juego recomendadisimo si te gusta la cultura japonesa y los juegos con bellos paisajes.

I'm about 20 hours in so far and absolutely loving the world Sucker Punch have created. Gameplay is varied and builds nicely as player experience grows. Excellent character interactions and investigation led side missions keep pulling me away from the main story arc as the world is just so rich and beautiful to explore. Combat mechanics are well thought out and allow for a well customized experience based on player preferences. The Archery and Horse riding in the game are both proving to be unexpected treats alongside fantastic swordplay! Highly recommended!

Lots of minor bugs don’t take away from the fact that this game is simply fantastic. The cinematography, the story, the combat system, character progression, the graphics (foliage, drawing distance) are all there. It feels like Red Dead 2 in a Samurai World, but it also lends great mechanics from other established games like stealth (Assassins Creed/Last of Us) and platforming (Uncharted). I can only imagine what a polished sequel on PS5 would look like. Suckerpunch, this game is the franchise you will be known for. I was a doubter that they could pull anything as good as this, but now I’m a believer.



This game is the definitive samurai experience, the combat,progression, storytelling works in a perfect harmony However, we had some downgrades, that's the reason for not getting 10/10

Una maravilla de juego, Los combates, la ambientación, musica esa conclusión en la historia, Dios es muy bueno me atrevería decir que no tiene competencia por el momento hasta ver que pasara con cyberpunk 2077
Tremendo juego, combate, gráficos, detalles, posturas, es maravilloso este juego, ese modo foto es una delicia, no me he encontrado al momento ningún bug, pero lo que he encontrado es donde pasar muchas horas estos días.
Open world,Samurai, stealth and the good list keep going on....Do yourself a favour if you are really true gamer buy yourself this game and play it...you wont regret it GRAPHIC: one of the best i have even seen GAMEPLAY: Is so enjoyable feels like this is gonna be Game of the Decade STORY: is simple good straightforward, no Draggy Drama or Saucy Scenes CONCLUSION: Buy it, it belongs to be in your masterpiece Collection! Booyah!!!
Uma verdadeira obra prima do século 21. Jogo incrível, sem dúvidas um dos melhores exclusivos de PS4. Arte incrível. Ritmo muito bom de se acompanhar, e as atividades do mapa são bem diversificadas. Eu nunca dei a mínima pra gráfico, mas com essa arte e o contraste de cores fiquei admirando e usando o modo foto diversas vezes. Passear pelos campos é quase como uma terapia.
This game was really what I never knew I wanted, until I got it. Personally, I have a deep love for japanese culture, so this game was really a no brainer for me. I watched a few clips to see if i like and then pre-ordered it. Before I say what I like & don't like, I'd want to add that Sekiro, another game focused around jap culture with similar combat etc etc was my 2019 goty. Alright, let's go. I like the story, combat, exploration, visuals and the overall feel of the game. Combat is spot on for me, as a dark souls fan, I thought the cimbat wouldn't be appealing, I couldn't be more wrong. Combat is rewarding, it got a great feeling when you hit those combos, parry an attack or deflect. Exploration is something quite unique with this game, having the wind guiding you towards the location you marked gives a binus to the enviromental storytelling. Game offers a lot of things to do, but unlike other open worlds, the locations have a meaning. You'll be liberating outposts, meeting vendors, following animals to get to secret locations, and do other various activities while actively getting rewards either in form of progression or items. Visually, the game looks stunning. It may be the best looking game available for PS4. Colors and the enviroment are in perfect balance and they complement eachother.You can actually see particles of all kinds in form of leaves falling from trees, embers and ash spreading in the air, rain drops and so on. Story is really well written, I'm not gonna comment on that. Overall a great game and experience, it's a step forward for SuckerPunch as they did a different kind of game, and they managed to make a masterpiece. This game goes beyond what makes a game and it truly achieves the rank of art. 10/10
This is a really good game! The graphics seem were a little downgraded as too be expected. But a lot of things were improved from the trailer as well. No spoilers but one of the best games ive played. Masterpiece 10/10

Absolutely beautiful environments in game. Combat is fun and intuitive. Story is fulfilling. This is what gaming is about relaxing and having fun. If you can only play this game or another recently released ps4 exclusive then I say this game wins hands down. Sucker Punch should be commended for their effort in delivering such a great experience.

No matter how many little glitches are in it it would still be the prettiest game and the best combat system game i have ever played Tip: Play it in japanese even with bad lip syncing it's miles better than the English

Este es el primer juego de sucker punch que he jugado y la verdad ghost of tsushima es de los mejores juegos que he jugado por mucho los graficos, la historia, la jugabilidad son asombrosas. No se porque le dan tan malas impresiones los criticos porque este juego vale la pena comprarlo,
this game is so damn beautiful and amazing the scenery the audio jin is a fantastic character good ass music good ass combat good ass story the duels are **** great hands down my fav game of all time beating out witcher 3 rdr2 and god of war 2018 anyone who is on the edge buy this game its nothing like assassins creed sucker punch did an amazing job and created a masterpiece
Amazing game overall. Great graphics, awesome story fantastic open world to explore. You can get easily lost while traveling to a mission in the vast world there is to explore. I love the wind as your guide since it makes you connect more with the world. Characters are simple yet relatable and the fighting although it seems repetitive at first just keeps getting better as you unlock new fighting stiles and skills. I just love it. Hopefully it gets game of the year.
Este juego vale cada centavo, una joyita que no fue valorada correctamente por la crítica, mucha variedad de escenarios, combate y sobre todo la diversión que ofrece, el mundo fuera de ser vacío tiene de todo, en la máxima dificultad se disfruta muchísimo y más si te dedicas al 100 por ciento a la senda del samurái, sin usar la rama de Ghost, para mí de lo mejor.

A true work of art. Definitely my biggest contender for GOTY. If you’re a fan of samurai culture, samurai cinema, or anything in between, I can’t recommend this game enough. Sucker Punch really outdid themselves.
OMFG ITS SO **** AMAZING. IF U LIKE SAMURAI SETTINGS, GET THIS NOW. THINK ASSASSINS CREED LIKE 3, IN A WITCHER 3 WORLD HOLY FRICKING SHIIIIIIIIIIII AND PHOTOMODE?

Es uno de los mejores titulos de la generación, el mundo es hermoso, la música es hermosa, los personajes interesantes y con una probable secuela, poco se puede decir sobre lo impresionante que es jugarlo, si te gusta la cultura japonesa, si te gustan los videojuegos en general, cómpralo.

갓겜입니다 라오어2 하다가 와서 그런지 타격감도 좋고 검술로 할수있는 동작도 많고 기존 게임들에 좋을점들을 많이 차용해서 썻지만 잘조합해서 만든 게임같아요 바람을 통해 간다는 점이나 아키라 감독의 영화모드도 좋았습니다.
I honestly do not know how to express how good this game makes me feel. From the start of the game you are overwhelmed by the artistic cinematography and unbelievably breathtaking scenery. It is not a happy game, but I feel energized in a positive way. Its like being immersed in a magical painting of Legends and myth. The violent actions increase your adrenaline with every slash of the sharp blade. Yet, it makes me feel peaceful. I absolutely love it!

There is nothing bad I could say about Ghost that wouldn't make me a full blown liar. This game is honestly amazing from the setting, music, to the enemies, multiple Play Styles, and the terrain scaling! The little things too like the playing of Jin's flute, him reaching down to touch the flowers as you ride on your horse. I log in to play and the game draws you in so much that in a matter of blinks hours on hours have gone by. To anyone on the fence about buying this game, do yourself a huge favor and buy it! You won't be dissatisfied!
IT'S A MUST PLAY even if your not into japanese style. Pretty epic game, i LOVE the feel of running your blade thru someone with every strike, quite satisfying... Graphics mint aswell as sound Its got a really good atmosphere to the game. definately going to be goty...

I don't know what it is about ghost of Tsushima, but it is highly addicting, the graphics are above average, the gameplay and story is where this game truly shines, and attention to detail I heard sucker punch when Japan and actually researched the history. Kudos to then
Just... everything you need, everyting you wanted, a great game from start to finish, satisfying stealth, amazing combat, great story, one of the best storytelling ive seen, the best looking game of this generation and I could continue praising this game for hours..

The best video game in 2020 and Japan’s environment is absurd and beautiful; the main player is well-characterised and the plot is well structured and involved; photo mode is pure poetry; gameplay is exciting and appant, and this game is a love letter. GotY for me ❤️
What a game. It is gorgeous, combat is complex and delicious. The story is riveting and exciting. You just can't wait to see how it ends, yet you have your time consumed by side quests with actual meat to them. Bravo Sucker Punch.

This is an easy 10/10. One of the most lovingly crafted video games of this console generation. You can feel the sincerity in every moment of gameplay. It feels like a better assassins creed and makes you really feel like you are in ancient Japan. With more than 20 hours into the game, I can truly say this is my game of the year.


Amazing game, love every second of it, the setting the music the character and the story!!! Very happy with it!!! For the life of me I cannot understand how these delusional critics picked tlou2 over this masterpiece, this decision is worse than deciding to put trump in the office

Best Sucker Punch game ever!! I love exploring and the quest / side missions, Just first 3 hours blew me away! Best samurai game ever so far as well and the B&W mode is a must, i felt in an oldie Japanese movie :D :D, Combat system is tight, love it. Beautiful graphics.

Ghost of Tsushima is a great game. I at least spent 60 hours on this game and still grinding. The island beckons the player with shrines, rivers, and tons of other interesting locations to explore. Game’s fighting animations are great. I just wish they would’ve worked Japanese lip-sync a bit more but the game is still a masterpiece that deserves the game of the year award. Story and sidequests narrated well. I never felt like doing the same thing over and over again. Every single thing was unique. Skill trees were awesome as well which gives variety to playing style. The combat system was also great and satisfying.
The samurai adventure I have always wanted and the game is a beautifully crafted ballet of swords and blood contained in an equally beautiful world. The island of Tsushima is vast with a plethora of things to look for, such as following the golden birds or foxes for items to aid your adventure or contemplating things with a haiku or hot springs session which also gain you items. if you like to explore like I do there is more than enough to keep you looking. The combat is great and like the true samurai I enjoyed walking into Mongol controlled territory and calling them out for a duel, great stuff!
Отличный боевик про японию. Хорошая боевая система. Очень люблю игры этой студии и эта не подвела

Ghost of tsushima is amazing. I have just been exploring alot and played side quests and some times i play story missions, not to say that the story is bad its just that i want to play as much of this game as i can. And im really enjoying everything from the combat story and exploration. I have played alot of it like 15 hours and i have been exploring so much that i have not even passed act 1 so my review might change, but i doubt it. I recomend 100%.
Ghost of Tsushima is a freaking awesome samurai game!! Gamers definitely deserve a best game like GOT but not like tlou2 which was false advertising and misleading...What did u see in the trailer is what will u play in the game! Sucker Punch really did a very good job! The graphic is just simply gorgeous and i considered it as the best in the generation. Gameplay is very solid and great, each strikes from the katana is very realistic and powerful. U have to experience the game urself.

Beautiful game just doesn't feel like a repetitive grind unlike other games I'm a good 20+ hours in and I cant stop playing. By far one of the best ps4 exclusives to come out and a great way to end an era for the playstation 4 BUY IT!!!!
Jesus Christ....wow. I’m going to be honest and say that when watching the trailers I thought the game was going to be sloppy. I was proven wrong immediately! very few games I play makes me want to 100% it from the start. Saying it’s Beautiful exciting action packed is an understatement! Congratulations SP now go rest, YOU'VE EARNED IT! Best game to come out this year so far without a doubt.
Здоровский боевик и отличная игра в открытом мире. Огромное спасибо разработчикам
Ghosts of Tsushima is one of the samurai experiences i've ever seen. The combat is great, the Standoff feature is very awesome,and the fact that the game uses the nature as coordinates to your next location makes the game an trufully immersive experience. So great job Sucker Punch. A wonderful game to close up the PS4 generation
Amazing game! The developers did a good job of trying to make this game be its own thing and not a wannabe Sekiro/Nioh 2. The combat is enjoyable, the blood and brutality of the cuts and killing is really well done. The open world is phenomenal, no garbage markers telling you where to go, instead you have a handcrafted world which you explore by looking around and immersing yourself in the game. The duels are very good, if you like Samurai movies, you will love this.
Es un juegazo, después de habérmelo pasado puedo decir que los escenarios son hermosos, el sistema de combate aunque un poco simple al principio, tras una hora de juego se vuelve de los mejor citas que he probado, la historia me parece magnífica, y es algo fresco que necesitaba la industria,la batalla final contra tu tío, cuando desde el principio pensé que es contra el khan me parece una de las más bonitas y buenas batallas finales en un juego, y la coreografía que se forma es estupenda. Aunque hablar de este juego sin hablar de sus escenarios es pecado, todo es extremadamente bonito y seguramente pase a la historia como uno de los juegos más bellos que hay. Aun estoy con las misiones secundarias para sacarme el platino pero de momento tengo más de la mitad hechas y todas tienen una historia interesante y no son repetitivas.
It's the best. Games are like war movies. It's the best knife action game ever, and the best game of 2020. Battle scenes stood out throughout the game. Like a real samurai, I wanted to protect Tsushima Island and take my own adventures as a wolf. And this game even gives a subtle impression. It was the best. This kind of war and an outstanding sword fight... Sucker Punch Productions is a great game company!
Damm! I loved this game! Fluid, arkham-like combat. Good switching of stances for the several enemy types. These are gameplay elements that will keep on giving through several playthroughs!
stunning world and environment nice story perfect side quests amazing gameplay one of the best samurai games some minor bugs but nit that important and its not ruin your experience thanks Sucker Punch for this very enjoyable game!
Прекрасная игра, кроме Секиро не могу вспомнить игру в таком сетинге, прекрасная атмосфера, бомбические сайд-квесты, особенно на легендарное снаряжение, харизматичный ГГ, интересный временной отрезок ибо монголы были прогрессивным но при этом брутальным народом. Графика улёт особенно мне понравилась работа со светом и туманом, многообразная боёвка которая развивается по мере прохождентя сюжета, также мне очень по душе принципы чести самураев и то что уГГ конфликт с самим собой, вроде и Цусиму защитить надо, а вроде и честь сохранить. Вообще игра - маст хэв!
I'll keep it very short. It has the best world design of any video game I've played and the main + side stories are very compelling. The atmosphere is unmatched. The combat is deep. It has some minor flaws, but the great things are much bigger in number.
Неплохо, очень даже неплохо. Шикарный саундтрек. Шикарная графика. Тут просто нет того, к чему можно придраться.
Deliciado com a aventura de Jim na sua jornada pela ilha de tsushima, parabéns a equipa da sucker punch pelo maravilhasa experiência neste pedaço da história japonesa

I could not wait for this game. The setting of Fuedal Japan is both visually appealing and horrific at the same time. Story has great pace and all about character. Only negative thing I say is, why didn't wasn't this game out sooner. What a great way to end the PS4 only exclusives. Looking forward to seeing what Sucker Punch release on the PS5
Wow. Really? Really?? This game is absolutely savage! Are you kidding me?? 10 out of 10!! How can the critics give TLOU 2 a 93 and give this an 83? This game blows any Assassins creed, shadow of mordor and just about any other playstation game out of the water! It feels like Breath of the wild/God of war/Horizon Zero Dawn all put together.

Probably the best game I’ve played so far. My current number one, right next God Of War. Graphics impecable, story very enjoyable, gameplay realistic, combat professional. Can’t say anything negative about it


I'm about halfway through the game. This is maybe my favorite open world game, ever... My attention span isn't the best... lol I get bored, easily... but, this game is captivating. I'm eager to search every inch of the map. Release day, I played the game for 8 hrs, AFTER working 8 hrs. Unheard of, for me. Masterpiece. No WOKE garbage

This game has soooo much going on, not only the visuals, the game play , and side quest. Truly the game i was waiting for it to be. sP really made it all work. Hope to see more of this craft coming our ways



I played abt 10 hrs of this game so far and I have to say the combat sustem is so satisfying and the explorations are incredible. The story antagonist is very charismatic and the graphic designs breathtaking. My only issue is the camera seen funky at times. Great/fun game highly recommend it.


I just complete 10 hours in the game, still not finish chapter one. One of the best open world in ps4. In balance very wheel the side quest mision with main story. Its not a Asassin Creed skin like many said is has is own rhythm . The photografy is amaizing. I feel very inmersr in the traveling. Just play the game now

Ghost of Tsushima is a phenomenal game, definitely not a 10/10 but it surely comes close to it! I have not noticed any glitches or anything exactly offputting about the gameplay or the story! Strangely enough, I've found myself actually enjoying collecting random things and doing all I can to thoroughly explore this fascinatingly beautiful world that i'm now fully immersed in, it is one of the absolute best Japanese styled games i've played among many others i've played in my life. (9/10 - I would definitely recommend this game to anyone that I know.)
+ +combat & exploration [every hit is very juicy, playing as ghost is so much satisfying] +world design [especially shrines] +audio [Japanesse & English] +music +graphic [astoning] +quests [you can obtain special skills by completing them, my favourite quests line is Ishikawa] +clear interface +you can pet a fox +main story +hard is hard, easy is easy +you can obtain platinum trophy on easy --- -repetitive appearance of households and Mongolian camps - not every perk has a story line

Stunning looking game. Good, yet challenging combat. Love the fact you can alternate between behaving like a samurai and a ninja. Good story with no other agendas in it. Only negative for me is cut scenes can go on a bit, especially at the beginning of the game. But the are trying to set the scene and story, so not a huge issue. Overall a fantastic game that you will sink hours into completing all the main missions and side quests, whilst exploring the gorgeous open world.

Absolutely amazing! stunning visuals great gameplay this is what you want in a AAA game. customization is perfect. also great attention to detail. i can stare at this game all day, just magnificent. i'm so happy i purchased the special edition. great job suckerpunch!!!!
Splendid game. I have been thinking for some time after Seikiro, what if they made it into an open world game? I think this is the closest we will ever get. Amazing combat, stylish yet not too easy, but not as hard as Seikiro obviously. Beautiful graphics. You feel like a samurai, and you have ninja skills, if at some point in your childhood you've imagined yourself becoming a samurai and killing bad guys, this game is exactly that. What more can you ask for?



I'm in love with Ghost of Tsushima! It's so **** fun, I just took a break after a 5 hour session. I try not to use my horse too much because I want to explore instead of rushing around. But I still love that you can get that attack where you dive off your horse and tackle people, so after I get that I'll be using my horse a lot more, such a beautiful game too. And the difficulty on Hard makes it actually hard but still crazy fun. Also, when fighting someone with a shield, jump at them and press triangle, you'll do a jump kick. The game never taught me to do that, but I figured it out and it looks and feels great.


Thank you SP for this masterpiece everything is awesome quests magical world soundtrack upgrades japanese techniques no word can ever make me enough to say

One of the most beautiful and well made games on Ps4. Congratulations Sucker Punch Productions! Graphics 10/10 Open world 10/10 Combat 9/10 Story 8/10 Music 10/10


I don’t usually review games so I’m not even going to pretend like I know what I’m talking about. All I have to say this is one beautiful game with fun and engaging combat and a game that will retain your attention the whole way through. I loved it, and I highly recommend it to anyone who hasn’t already picked it up.
This game blew my expectations out of the water. A true test to your skills with a rewarding learning curve and the best open world design I've ever played. A must buy for all Playstation users.


I really cannot describe how fantastic and wonderful this game is. Suckerpunch has done an awesome job at making a Japanese Samurai game and I definitely recommend buying it if you haven’t yet.




Finally after so many disappointments we got something you would call a great game. A story told right, great visuals, good combat. Haven't finished it yet can tell it is already GOTY for me.


Amazing game, couldn't ask for more. The map is just too beautiful, you can see how much work they have put in the game. Best part about this game would be its combat, you never get tired of it. It's fast paced, smooth combat. I just couldn't ask for any more.
From the beautiful landscapes, exploration and just the fun combat I can't believe this game turned out as good as it did. A strong game of the year contender if you ask me! Suckerpunch I'm already ready for a sequel! Let's get it!
This game is amazing i love this game i love the graphics i love the story i love everything about this game


Game is just like a silent killer turning out to be outstanding without too much hype before release. Top tier graphic, best atmosphere, and most impressive combat, it’s not perfect though, still it’s got something special and something left to be further polished, I gave the game 10/10, also my full respect to Sucker Punch for the most unforgettable samurai experience so far.
An incredible game, Sucker Punch always make the most fun games to play. The graphics are a true sight to behold, amazing views and settings. Combat is fluid and satisfying, great story. There are some bugs that will probably get fixed, but nothing serious that deters from the general amazing experience.
Estoy todavia sin palabras por el pedazo de juego que ha hecho sucker punch,el trabajo a nivel artistico es impecable,es uno de los juegos que mejor luce de la historia,el gameplay es divertido y segun avanzas mejora, la musica es digna de un oscar,y el conjunto de todo forma uno de los mejores juegos de este año y de la generacion,que con un poco mas de pulido en algun que otro bug y animacion podria haber sido de los mejores de la historia
I honestly went outside and the graphics looked bad....all jokes aside this is a masterfulli crafted game with a lucious world to immerse,explore and lose yourself in!
Adorei o jogo, finalmente me senti como um samurai, o sistema de combate eh fantastico, os graficos lindos, a historia eh muito boa tb, perdi a maior parte do meu tempo adorando as paisagens e ambientacao, que obra de arte


Still playing it, but based on the moment I'm playing, I hardly will change my opinion, combat is one of the best, fun and violent, the exploration is amazing, you want to go to every corner of the map! Didn't encounter any major bug yet! Some downsides is the textures and the camera in some parts! This game is actually a 9.7 right know for me but metacritic score is just 0 to 10!

Ghost of Tsushima is an absolutely gorgeous open world action/adventure with incredible combat and clever solutions to longstanding issues in the genre, despite dropping the ball on the stealth side of its stealth/action split.
Game is incredible! Graphics, story, and attention to detail are astounding with gameplay that is fun and addictive. Please buy and support hard working developers.



Ghost of Tsushima is NOT a 10!! It is a fun single player experience buoyed by an awesome setting. The ode to classic Japanese Samurai cinema was done with love and that’s the best part of this game. It’s not perfect by any means even the combat and stealth (especially the stealth) could use refinement especially considering they are what the game relies on heavily. The AI is POOR for a game that was released in 2020. The open world is vast and interesting but it doesn’t come close to a game like RDR2. The story/characters are interesting enough but it’s nothing special. The game is fun but will get repetitive.




A fantastic exclusive to end the PS4 era with. Magnificent and utterly astounding open world, no nonsense combat as even a slight falter or button mashing won't help you on Hard mode. Side quests are the best way to experience the Sucker Punch magic. Undoubtedly, this game is my GOTY.
The game is beautiful and it's a romance letter to all Samurai fans in the world, excellent explanation, good combat and interesting side quest lines. This game is a must play

Goty easily it’s not even close. Makes tlou2 look like trash because it is. Hilarious how they gave this game a 83. When tlou2 has a 94. Idk what game they played but this game in literally every single way except maybe graphics but that’s preference because this game is beautiful and the load times are like 2 seconds on the pro. I have never pressed start on a game and have it be that fast. Please buy this game because sucker punch is now after this game right there with god of war for PlayStation best exclusive. If tlou2 wins goty over this Goty means nothing anymore.



This is an incredible game. At times, beautifully gentle and introspective; at others, explosive and stunning. The gameplay is generous, the environments are diverse and the characterisation is engaging yet subtle. You will be thinking about it when you’re not playing.

Almost perfect, and alot better then Breath of the wild. If you love Japanes culture, a beautifull open world, and brutal sword action. This is it. It just needed a bit more polishing on some aspects. Like the platforming, or climbing a ladder. Little things. But Suckerpunch improved alot since InFamous. Wel done!

How this game only has a 83 from “professional reviewers” is so telling compared to what they gave the dumpster fire that is the last of us 2. This game is literally the only reason I bought a ps4. The combat is amazing and so is the explanation, I’ve honestly had more fun finding poem areas and Fox dens and playing with the camera mode then most other games cause they are just done so well. The camera could use some improvement especially if you end up in a fight inside a building or tents or the a forest area but other then that this game is a perfect 10 and it shows.
When Sucker Punch first showed the trailer for Ghost of Tsushima, I was impressed already. The flute and beautiful scenery blew me away. I can wholeheartedly say this is the best open world historical game to date. The sound design, visual melds perfectly. Looking forward to the sequel

I don't get tired of this World. Is everything beautiful e deep. Is not too fast, not too slow, the pacing is perfect and the progression is amazing, I love this game, is one of the best experiences I Had this year.
As a film student I know my Kurosawa, and my Kobayashi, so believe me when I tell you that this beautiful game, gorgeous in every way, stands shoulder to shoulder with some of the best samurai movies. The story is pretty linear, basic and strong - samurai`s path must also be linear and determined. Whoever wrote this had perfect understanding of how samurai films work, how honor and morality are the most important things in the mindset of a warrior. It is really a Far Cry 3 sandbox approach (that is, the best kind of approach) where you are given freedom (which is contextualized by the story) to explore, gather resources and build your army. Ghost of Tsushima is a story about a samurai who picks up beats and pieces of his fallen nation to create this corkscrew army and try to take over the island of Tsushima. With some of the best graphics ps4 has ever seen, ballet-like combat, useful and rewarding progression system. I dare to say the words that at first sounded a bit weird but are more and more clear every time I go back to play the game: "Perhaps this is the best PS4 game."


Take the movie style and setting of "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon" mix it into Horizon: Zero Dawn's and Farcry 5's controls, visuals, gameplay with a hint of Red Dead Redemption 2's/ The Last Of Us 2's story telling and cut scenes, and you have Ghost Of Tsushima. The game doesn't do anything innovative or revolutionary, but it executes really great mechanics of your favorite games together extremely well and really beautifully. Visually, the game is stunning as well. It's few downfalls are repetative objectives (Take over this section of the map, take over this section of the map now) and it doesn't take risks bring anything new to the gaming world. 88 out of 100 for me.
The game looks gorgeous, good story and amazing combat. What I didn’t like is the player movement control, wasn’t good, could be fixed. Overall, the game is worth buying, go and get it.
لعبة اسطورية يعوبها الاخراج والتقطيع بين المشاهد ولكن تظل لعبة رائعة واسطورية ورهيبه وخورافيه ♥️♥️♥️♥️♥️
Love this game....This game is not direct comparison to Assassins Creed Orgin/Odyssey. Gameplay is good and game brings the real deal of samurai instead of mythology elements like Odyssey. 9
I really like the game, the visuals are great specially with the hardware ps4 hase, i cant believe they made a game with that visuals, tho some areas are too bright like on snow. I like how they built the story, at start it was kinda boring, but after 5 hours of playing it became really interesting specially when you understand why its called the ghost. I really like the meaning behind the game. Its about new ways and old ways. They should add a replayability from start. It's a fresh experience playing the game. Last time i felt this experience was deathstranding
Best exclusive game from Sony for many years. Good gameplay, deep and believable story, awesome old Japanese atmosphere. Much much much better than TLoU P2 (don’t waist your money on that trash).



I am loving the game, the visuals are above any other game I have seen, the setting, characters, feel really grounded and interesting, combat provides enough variety for you to have different approaches, The set up our expectations and delivered
Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful game and quite possibly the most beautiful open world game to date. While it borrows other elements from similar titles it executes them just as good if not better while adding its own new features. The combat is addictive, the world flows around you making it feel like it’s a living thing and the story while not the best is more than serviceable.

Absolutely gorgeous game. I love the setting and the detailed scenery. Just watching the grass sway in the vast fields is an experience. A total spectacle in every way. Some of the AI could be better programmed but I didn't want to stealth around too much anyway. Most of the beauty in this game is in the swordplay and combat. Full on recommendation and a beautiful swan song to the ps4 exclusive library. Certainly more engaging than the last exclusive we got.


Great graphics great gameplay great diffrent ways to keep you interested ways and great story nothing bad but all hides you cant use but beaides that great buy definitely for me game of year
This game is magic. So much heart and passion was poured into this game. Cements SP as a top tier developer now. But how does this get an 83 when TLOU2 gets a 94 from the media outlets? Anyway an absolute must play for lovers of Japanese cinema, culture, and video games.
Great game! I love it's art style and the gameplay. The story is good so far but could be better. I didn't like the fact that there's no variety of enemies. I think that's it
Seriously kudos to sucker punch, amazing game insanely awesome visuals, a decent story, wonderful combat, & most importantly the loading screens unbelievably fast seriously this is one of the best thing in this game. The fast travel is actually a fast travel. This is a must buy game. A game of the year contender. Worth every single penny. Stealth is not that good but the combat is so good that i rarely use it. I love stealth but this game changed my mind. Go buy it show your support to these hardworking artists & developers.

They say it's repetitive. Man, I'm not feeling any of it. Every new mongol encampment is a new experience for me. I am so loving it. Spent almost 15hrs and I'm still on act 1.
This game is fantastic! Even though it's an open world game, it never gets repetitive. The mission structure particularly the side quests are engaging. I'm still on the first region but I'm excited to see what lies ahead! Great game!

Magnificent open world samurai adventure. Keeping review short as nearly every aspect should remain untalked about so you can experience first hand. Hopefully suckerpunch turn this into a franchise.
I think I have spent roughly 2 days into this game. From the very beginning I was hooked. The opening sequence and cut scene really tells you what you are up against. The fighting mechanism in this game is pretty good and easy to grasp. At first you will think it is pretty basic but as you level up you find that the beauty of it comes from the mo-cap attack animations. Battles can get pretty overwhelming if you are not careful and the scenery in this game. I mean breathtaking. The vistas and landscapes in this game are pretty awesome, especially with the filter, but truth be told you don't even need it. I replaced my playstation wallpaper from the dynamic theme to one of the pictures i took. It is that good. I feel that this game is very unique in it's style. For some reason i keep thinking about Red Dead Redemption 2 and The Witcher 3 when I am playing maybe it is the open world....or the horses. Oh and spoiler, some of the boss battles, where you learn a new move can be really intense. Oh and for fans of the sly cooper franchise, there seems to be a bit of its dna in this game. I can't put my finger on it but it is in there.
best grafic, best gameplay, best story, the most atmospheric game I've ever seen,the game is full of strong moments that can break through to tears,and of course the 1 on 1 sword fights that give you goosebumps
one of my favorite game of all time samurai ninja haiku katana shrine beautiful island you can feel japanese culture all the time very strong title
Ghost of Tsushima is a beautifully crafted game in every way. A joy to play for anyone who appreciates good storytelling, good script and interesting characters. Opposite to that other first party game that came out recently.
Wasn't sure if this game would be for me but decided to try. So glad I did. Huge open world and the world my god it’s beautiful .Everything from the grass to the wind is so nice it’s actually hard to do the mains stories I just want to explore
what a amazing game!thank you for this masterpiece suckerpunch.best graphic i ever seen,there is some little problem on gameplay but not so important,athmospher in this game is amazing, i never see any like that in any game
eu amei o jogo tanto em gameplay, graficos, brilho, ambientação e historia. recomendo a todos que possuem um ps4
Absolutely breathtaking and brilliant if the current generation is ending soon sucker punch have managed to end the game with an iron punch. Absolutely must play and a strong game of the year contender. But I have just one problem with this game the trash that comes with it in the physical disc.

Sucker Punch has created a gorgeous open world, with slick, satisfing combat and an interesting and varied open world. I'm only about 8 hours in but have so far enjoyed only a small portion of the what the game has to offer but I'm loving it so far. Congratulations Sucker Punch
looks gorgeous. My biggest take is the absence of HUD, so you get to immerse yourself in the environment as the wind is used to guide you to your next location. My biggest gripe with most open-world games is having to spend half the time looking at the mini-map and this game solves it beautifully. Also, there is no level gating, where you can't fight an enemy because they are 30 levels above you. The combat is fluid and really satisfying (playing on hard). The loading times in the game are only a few seconds, which is surprising given it is running on HDD and such old hardware. The photo mode is rich with features. The customization and charms are fun. I feel this is the game that everyone wanted an Assassin's Creed in Japan to be


Love the game it has great graphichs, very good combat,the world is very beatuiful great gama overall to finish the PS4 generation,had some minor bug and gliches but din't ruin the expirance.

Fantastic display of fun gameplay, beautiful graphics and memorable music/audio! I absolutely love the load times for this game, fast travel is a breeze. Tons of interesting side quests and an engaging main quest as well. Love this game, one of a kind. I highly recommend this to anyone that are fans of samurai drama or action adventure games.
the game with best samori game ever the Gameplay is perfect and the story is complet without missing part the most think that makes me happy the sondtrak on pattle ... masterpiece
Jogo excelente com experiência única, me fez entrar de cabeça no mundo samurai com meus gráficos incríveis e missões no mapa que fazem o jogador não focar somente na principal. Comecei diretamente no difícil e a dificuldade corresponde, diferente da maioria dos jogos nos dias de hoje.
Amazing game with amazing graphics and story, it makes you feel like you are deep in the world like a samurai you can ajust the way you want to play more agressive more stealth.. it is an amazing work on this year of 2020 realy deserves a good score
This game is incredible, one of the best games I’ve ever played. The graphics are beautiful, the story is amazing (I haven’t completed it yet, however) but so far I’m enjoying. Definitely a whole 10/10 for me unlike the 2/10 which was TLOU2.

By all means not original, but takes the best mechanics from AC + Farcry (with a dose of tombraider) and does its own thing on top of it. Such a fun game, the combat just feels brilliant. Suckerpunch has taken a balanced approach to graphics and speed, with really fast load times and smooth gameplay. Unlike AC, the world is fresh with heaps to do and a really well told story.As you get more into ACT II the story just opens up as well as the mechanics. Some of the button choices could have been improved and sometimes you die whilst jumping off a cliff that doesn't look high - other than that its a masterpiece.

Not sure what crap some of the critics reviewing this game are on but for me it's a clear 10/10 and big GOTY contender. Stunning graphics, supersmooth, streamlined gameplay & combat + one of the most atmospheric games I-ve ever played. Add a fun story and gorgeous open world exploration and you got yourself a masterpiece
This game is absolutely stunning. Admidly it's not perfect but it dosen't need to be perfect. I don't usually call games art but this one is. If any game would be called art it would be ghost of tsushima.

This game offers everything you could expect in a videogame.. Graphics are so beautiful you lose track between gameplay and cutscene. Gameplay is really balanced and offers so much exploration for those enthusiasts out there looking for so much more. Soundtrack is addictive well produced within the game like how the music change when you are exploring and going into a fight. Story is well written and not only in the main story missions, the sub missions characters offers extra charm to the main campaign of the game often makes you sidetracked from your main objective. Overall.. I highly recommend this game to everyone who are looking for pure magic and awesome gameplay.





Most amazing way to finish the playstation era. The open world is so interesting and enjoyable to explore. The battle are engaging amd realistic. Recommand playing on hard if your a souls fan.
This game is absolutely beautiful. The scenery is majestic, and there are hidden secrets everywhere. The story is epic, and each battle feels climatic. Normally I'd say bandit camps and other areas to clear are just filler, made to pad run time, but here, I look forward to finding them. It's worth it to do everything. Jin is a stereotypical samurai, fighting for honor and duty, but I like him. Sucker Punch made the game of the year, and they should be lauded for their efforts. Also, neither here nor there, but Famitsu gave it a 40 out of 40, one of the very few western games to receive this praise.

All I have to say Samurai simulator! They 1 to 1 showdown that can instantly take down your opponent or opponents with one strike of your blade.They have the black & white mode call Kurosawa mode that make you feel like you in old Japanese movie. All that ghost mode or being a ninja in the game so stealth take down, projectile weapons, etc.You can fight anyway you want. Its just breathe of fresh air
Though I have only been able to play through the first act of the game it has been a great game, though I have died more times than I can count (hard mode might just be too hard for me), it is a beautiful looking game and the gameplay great as well. While there are a few kink's in the AI when sneaking around it is still a game I would call Game Of The Year worthy.
I'm amazed by this game, not only it's beautiful graphics, it's excelent sound design and it's memorable music bits but also the whole feeling of the game. A great game with amazing visuals and a very satisfying combat makes this a masterpiece for me. Maybe I'm biased because I wanted a samurai simulator for so long but the fact that this game sets Jin as probably the first Shinobi (as in ninjas didn't exist before sengoku period) makes it even greater. Voice acting is spot on in japanese and while maybe lip sync is not perfect in this version, the acting itself makes up for it A LOT. and while I've played every single assassin's creed game this game's open world does not remind me of Assassin's creed at all, I feel it's so vast and wonderful, even simple non character sidequests present me with interesting things to see. I can think of that sidequest with the samurai spirits how it felt so magical with all that fog and the fireflies. hell even there are some random encounters of people with names who commit crimes or people who did sepuku just randomly leaving a note besides their corpses, the fact that these little events can be seen without a "?" mark on the map and just following the golden bird is awesome.
An amazing game. Super fun gameplay and absolutely a blast to play. Once you get the hang of combat and learn to wait for your moment, it is super satisfying to go against a group of Mongolians and just slaughter them.
I came into this game with a lot of hype. As a big fan of sucker punch (having played all sly cooper games and Infamous games) I had high expectations due to this being an open-world, samurai game set in Feudal Japan in the 1200’s. SuckerPunch blew my expectation away to put it lightly. I’ve spent about 20 hours and I’m still in act 1 due to the sheer amount of content in the game. The world is beautiful and it makes me want to take a picture every 5 seconds. I’m no going to talk about the story but it’s good for what it is and has deeper layers in it. The gameplay is really nice and the combat is smooth and despite some issues I still have a lot of fun. This is one of the few games I plan on 100% and beating more than once. I recommend playing it twice, first play it how you want and then the second time play in Kurosawa mode to experience the full beauty.
I cannot put my controller down.! This game deserves to be considered game of the year!. Lets talk abut the combat, its very fluid. Solid hit registration I had a blast parrying and clashing blades with enemies. If you played the Batman games you will really appreciate the combat system. I enjoyed mastering the stances against enemies . Think gunplay Doom Eternal. Overall beautiful game Highly advise gamers to pick it up. You will have so much fun!

16 hours into the game and I loooove it. This is open world done right. The story and the athmosphere reminds me of the old samourai movies I watched beeing a kind. When roamig the land, meeting new people, helping villages and trying to free the island, I have never felt so invested in the tasks as I do here. Without the level gating, we are not pushed to do the side content, but the quests, locations, stories and vistas are the motivation to do so. I'm keeping this short as I want to dive back in.

Gioco appagante, godibile nel giocarlo ed esplorazione fantastica, panorami da urlo e modifiche a spade e completi eccellenti, veramente un buon lavoro.

I was not going to buy this game due to the agenda, terrible story and destruction of characters that hold the original together of TLOU2 , another Sony exclusive. But I saw a review from a Youtuber I trust. Between this game and TLOU2 I realize how stupid people are who trust paid critics reviews. They have proven that they don't deserve our trust and are part of the agenda pervading our media these days. Bring out a woke game and get 10/10's, bring out an awesome game like Ghosts of Tsushima and get a lot of 6-8/10 reviews. I am surprised the critics did not follow suit with most of these SJW's giving this a 0/10. If you see a 0/10, I urge you to look up that persons review of TLOU2 and see if they gave it a 10/10, I guarantee they did. Garbage people btrying to bring this game down because it does not have the agenda is just pathetic. All that aside, I did not give this game a 10/10 lightly, the graphics, the gameplay, the music, are all amazing and GOTY worthy. The ONLY bad thing I have to say is the main character is a little dull, but no game is perfect. I don't give 10/10 to perfect games because there are none, I give it to games like this that are so amazing they force me to overlook it's flaws, just like God of War. I watched a YouTuber play through the whole of GOW and I still wanted to play it, and not just play it, play it over and over again. Ghosts of Tsushima IS that kind of game. There is nothing that really breaks your immersion throughout your time in the world, even the Japanese reviewers are giving it good scores. That's a good indication that they have a true masterpiece of a game. Well done Sucker Punch. Sony take note and don't allow "woke" media to ruin your 1st party games. I hope this continues through to the PS5 and we see some fantastic gameplay like this and even better graphics to enhance our experiences. This is what gamers deserve, and what they want. Obviously, just from the reviews you can tell what we want. Please keep this up!
After Witcher 3 and RDR2 this the only open-world game I've lost myself in. There aren't any busy streets, the NPC's don't have their own schedules or anything fancy like AC does with their new games but somehow Sucker Punch made the world work and I have no idea how they did it, LOL. I never got bored roaming around and soaking in the beauty. The Combat is fricking amazing. It has to grow on you. You will suck for a while but when you master parry and switching between stance it turns into something amazing. Also, the standoffs man, it feels so good no matter how many times you do it. This game also has a lot of enemy variety. The story is a little bit meh, but it still works. Thats why I'm giving this a 9.
Juego precioso en gráficos, representa totalmente el colorido japonés, técnicas de lucha muy buenas( hay gente que dice que es repetitivo, que juego no lo es) variar el estilo de lucha depende del oponente esta muy conseguido. La historia muy buena, basada en hecho real de la invasión mongola . Aconsejo la compra de este título, voy por la mitad del juego y el crecimiento del personaje es fantástico.
Great graphics, the combat takes a few missions to practice, but then it is easy. Top 5 ps4 games. Not quite the story and side missions as witcher 3, but very very good. Definitely a must play
Gostei muito da jogabilidade e mecânicas diversas. A história do jogo é boa, mas em certos momentos é meio clichê. Os gráficos são bons, porém sofre um certo nível de downgrade comparado aos trailers e certos momentos o cenário fica um pouco borrados em partes específica dos mapa (raro). A inteligência artificial dos inimigos é boa, mas em certos momentos é bem bugado.
Por fin un juego ambientado en Japón y con la temática samurai bien representada y respetada!! Los escenarios son increíbles y dignos de pararte a mirarlos. En cuanto al sistema de combate me parece el mejor sistema posible que se ha usado nunca para un mundo abierto! Una historia sólida interesante y que te engancha y atrapa, haciéndote empatizar con Jin desde el ppio Es asi y no como en the ñast of us con tanta inclusión y progres por todos los lados como se debe hacer una historia! Evidentemente la prensa Española q está completamente idiotizada por estos colectivos tan fascistas que dictan como tiene q ser y pensar todo el mundo no le dan la nota que se merece, digamos que para ellos esta bien pero no se falta mas agenda politica y más inclusión, y por supuesto, no pueden entender el sentimiento de pertenencia y de patriotismo de los japoneses ya que aquí casi se avergüenzan estos colectivos de que en su dni pongan que son españoles!! Me alegro de que no todas las compañías de videojuegos se dejen manipular y estropear sus obras por los movimientos manipulados por el Delincuente de SOROS! Un soplo de aire fresco entre tanta mierda progre!
Simply amazing. Exceeded all my expectations and removed the sour taste of disappointment that TLOU 2 left in my mouth. Worthy swan song to PS4 era. Sucker Punch just nailed it. Graphics: 10/10, one of the most beautiful games I have ever played. Easily in the Top 5. Story: 9.5/10. It is amazing. The ending is absolutely well done and the pacing is great. Made me tear up at the end. Gameplay: 9.5/10, combat is almost perfect. Extremely satisfying, challenging and with a lot of depth. I only removed the 0.5 points because of the clunky camera in closed areas and no lock-on system to counter that (like in Soulsborne). Music/Audio/Soundtrack: 9/10, simply amazing. Open World/Side Quests: 9/10. Open World feels alive, is huge (~30 km square) yet does NOT feel empty AT ALL with the frequent random encounters and overall the things to do. No minimap and wind guidance mechanic really helps to get lost in the world and enjoy the never ending beautiful scenery. It encourages and rewards exploration. Side quests are great. Although no Witcher 3 level, it is pretty damn close and each side quest have their own unique stories and are enjoyable. “Big” side quests (called Mythic Tales) are the best ones. They have their own entire plot and almost all of them have a great boss battle at the end and the rewards are amazing and totally worth your time. Fun factor: 10/10, forget the story, forget the graphics, game is just extremely fun to mess around, explore the world, fight enemies and etc. The most enjoyable game I have played all year and I have played TLOU2, FFVIIR, Doom: Eternal, Animal Crossing and etc. Overall: 9.5/10, my personal GOTY (the only game remaining that can even come close is Cyberpunk). I can see it being in my Top 10 games of all time just because of the quality open world, gameplay and combat alone. Other things are just icing on the top. P.S.: I gave the game 9.5 but rated 10/10 because after finishing the game and currently going for 100% completion and platinum, I personally think any less than 9.5 is not doing this game justice.
Игра очень понравилась, прохожу с удовольствием, но всё равно чувствуется веянье нашей любимой (нет) Саркисян, и в игре нет красивых девушек, все какие-то стрёмные. Только Юна более менее.
بازی سرشار از احساسات و خشم و وطن پرستی و المان های کوروساوا که خیلی از طرفداران سامورایی خیلی وقت بود منتظر همچین بازی بودند و خیلی خوب تونست پرونده ی بازی های انحصاری نسل هشتم سونی رو ببنده
Buen juego con una historia interesante, las gráficas geniales, que le falta para el 10, considero que podría haber sido mejorado el modo de juego, esperando desde ya algún dlc.

Great game, Only issues i have with it is that it gets a little too easy once you start stacking upgrades on yourself, and the subtitles are written for the english voicelines, not the jap, which i noticed have some rather big differences between them from time to time. I'd have prefered to be able to pick a subtitle that fit the jap voicelines better.
This game is beautiful and so polished. Honestly has been a while sense I enjoy a game this much. There are very small quality of life things in the game that keep it from being a 10 but everyone is gonna enjoy something about this game.
Awesome Game with a lot of style. for me: Graphic 10 of 10 World 10 of 10 Story 8 of 10 Gameplay 9 of 10 some small issues here and there but nothing that disturbs the game (and cant be fixed with updates)
Game is wonderfully refreshing. Another open world yet it uses unique ways to direct you around the world without icons being all over the screen. Visually stunning. Combat really makes you feel like a samurai. Music is wonderful. This is must play for everyone on PS4 What a way to close out the era of the PS4. 9/10 because no game is perfect.
im about 20 hours in and cant stop playing. This game has restored my faith in gaming and gives me hope for the next gen games. If you haven't played it yet, good luck getting a copy. I got the only non pre ordered copy within a 100 miles!
Finished the game a couple of hours ago, I’ve been thinking about it since then, and I really did not have a good time with it. The world is beautiful, no doubt about that...but everything else really didn’t do anything for me. I won’t go into story because...spoilers.
The best game i’ve played in my life, worth every penny i spent, beautiful world and landscaped but dont let it fool you although the game seems happy and beautiful, it gets dark the more you play it and the more missions you do, the story is one of the best stories i played jn a video game , it tackles a lot philosophical debates subtly without forcing anything and i like it, it talk about mainly what would you sacrifice to protect the ones you love your homeland ect, if you really pay attention you can learn important lessons like i did, my only complaint is that the movement is a little buggy , 10/10 for me definitely would recommend buying the game
Really love the game so far, has some issues with with the camera but that’s to be expected. It’s a visually stunning game and the story is interesting, combat feels a bit clumsy at times when fighting multiple enemies but is overall enjoyable and fun. The voice acting is also really good and fitting for the characters, I’ve however only played with the Japanese audio so I can’t say anything about the English one. If you are looking for a new game with a fulfilling story and beautiful visuals I highly recommend this one.

Great game easily the best game of the year so far, visually stunning and unique style, not a perfect game but then there's no such thing as a perfect game,
What a fantastic game. Talk about really making a special experience. The gameplay is non stop fun, and the world is gorgeous. I never got tired of using the photo mode. Although no game is perfect, for example repetitive missions and sometimes buggy mechanics, this game completes every expectation for that badass samurai experience.
I haven’t beat the game yet I’m about 15 or so hours in, I’m currently taking my time and am enjoying every second. I would consider myself a samurai/ninja enthusiast, that being said I’m completely in love with almost everything this game has to offer. The story is pretty interesting so far nothing crazy but very solid. I find myself in love with the combat, I can easily say while not perfect, it’s some of the most fun I’ve ever had with sword play in a video game. The bow is also very fun to use the fire arrows are a blast. The graphics are absolutely stunning and I don’t even have a pro to play it on. The color contrast is what I feel definitely makes the graphics look so beautiful
Świetna gra. Ciekawy i immersyjny sposób prowadzenia postaci do misji za pomocą wiatru. Pozytywnie mnie to zaskoczyło. Gra wygląda obłędnie. Screeny same się robią, ale mnie osobiście nie specjalnie "'powala" bo w 2020 to raczej powinien być standard. Gra ma w sobie "feel" Assassin's Creed - tych starszych gdzie można się wspinać tylko w wyznaczonych miejscach. Podobny styl do Uncharter 4. Świetne walki, ale można "zepsuć grę" po prostu chodząc na jakiś dach gdzie przeciwnik nie wejdzie, kucnąć i po chwili zeskoczyć ▲ zabijając od tak 3 przeciwników. Natknąłem się na kilka zabawnych bugów gdzie np postać odbija się plecami od ziemi jak od trampoliny. Przydało bi się więcej GORE. Coś jak w Wiedźmin 3 do którego de facto mogę porównać misje poboczne - wydają się być ciekawe na tyle, że nie ma się wrażenia, że robisz to na siłę. Zdecydowanie polecam gierkę. Jeden z lepszych exklusiwów obok mojego ulubionego Bloodporne czy GoW, Spider-man.

96/100. Pleasantly surprised by this near perfect first installment! The game play is intense, challenging and interesting with memorable characters and complex back stories. A must play. It misses the perfect mark only due to a few minor bugs and blemishes that could be ironed out and perfected through updates or DLC content.
Don't remember the last time I stopped to take a picture with my console such a beautiful game. Love the fighting style and overall story writing focused around the character and the way you play.
Great game, absolutely loved it. Ai is definitely a weak point. Specially during stealth. Something I doubt we'll see fixed in a patch either but u never know. Great characters, every skill feels like it adds something decent, the world is utterly beautiful, combat is probably my favourite part. All open world's suffer from doing things over and over though they tried to put in as much variety as possible, only rdr2 managed that feat. I put it up there with Witcher 3, high praise
ive only played about 8-10 hours so far but oh man I feel like ive done alot and am excited for more so far. everywhere I go, the game is soo beautiful. It has actually gotten to the point that I bought a usb drive so I can pull the screen shots I got from the game so that I can share em online and spread the great news on it with pics! The gameplay is actually pretty fun, I was worried about getting bored with it, but even though the combat is simple, it can still go south for you very quickly and I like that. I think it also helps that you are a samurai/ assassin hybrid - just knowing that you are this powerhouse archetype makes you feel badass and lends to the feeling of awesome. the quests have good storylines so far - ive been doing a crap ton of side quests and just exploring, so I was surprised that many of the side quests had pretty engaging stories behind them. cons - to be honest I cant think of anything right now, Im really enjoying my experience. I just know that the game isnt perfect so I cant in good conscience give it a 10 out of 10.
This Game is a Masterpiece There were no mistakes done Very Fun and Art

Great ending to a great era of console. This game is everything I wanted it to be, the open world serves the story, everything has importance and meaning. What a way to end the ps4 era.
Visually stunning! Historically immersive, at least from what I've learned in the past. The experience gives you a glimpse of how the land and culture has beauty, as well as how bleak and violent the times were.
Pra mim um dos melhores jogos da geração do PS4. Simplesmente inclível, é inacreditável o que a Sucker Punch conseguiu fazer nesse game em termos técnicos, conseguiram criar um mundo aberto que passa a sensação de estar em um mundo real, a cada momento o jogo te entrega algo novo para fazer, tudo isso em um mundo de gráficos lindos, verdadeiras pinturas sendo geradas a cada ambiente. Falando em ambiente, o jogo procurou cuidar de cada detalhe, animais, vegetação, vento, sistemas de partículas, volto a dizer, é inacreditável o que fizeram nesse jogo. O sistema de combate é complexo, porém não é difícil de se acostumar, acontece que os inimigos realmente são fortes e você sente uma progressão de dificuldade conforme vai progredindo no jogo, o que te obriga a fazer missões secundárias, procurar templos, tudo isso para poder aprimorar o equipamento e aprender novos golpes, posturas e técnicas para então poder lutar com os inimigos de igual para igual. Por ser um jogo de mundo aberto, o mapa é gigantesco e a distância que o jogo marca a ser percorrida realmente parece que é a mesma que você andaria no mundo real, 1km é 1km mesmo. os locais variam bastante, campos de flores lindos dão lugares a florestas densas com grande variedade de vegetação e animais, sapos, caranguejos, cachorros, veados, javalis, pássaros, raposas, peixes, são muitos detalhes que nem precisariam estar lá, mas os desenvolvedores colocaram para mostrar o capricho que tiveram com o jogo. Dos pontos negativos, alguns bugs acontecem, como inimigos trancarem em obstáculos e as vezes a camera se posiciona de modo que não favorece o combate (acredito que vão arrumar isso em atualizações futuras) Mas resumindo tudo, o jogo é lindo e trás horas e mais horas de gameplay intensa, muita imersão nos ambientes e combates realmente desafiadores. AMEI


I love this game! It's pretty much the realistic samurai game that I've been looking for. The animations are top notch, and the combat is simple to learn. The world is gorgeous and the characters are pretty cool. Some bugs do exist in this game, which holds it back from a 10 for me. The bugs themselves aren't totally game-breaking though. The story is really engaging and does a pretty good job at keeping you invested. Completed the story and pretty much all the side quests, and still coming back to enjoy the world of Ghost Of Tsushima. Side note: It has foxes, I'm pretty biased toward foxes!
Ghost of Tsushima has to best looking open world ever seen it is wonderful. The Soundtrack is wonderful too and the story is great. The Character Skill System is what i want in a open world game nice Moves nice secret skills and so on u can kill everyone in the world with on strike it is better as in assasins creed. It is a 9/10 for me because of the annoying camera system bu . Nice Combat System
beautiful game so much fun and so mesmerising never took so many screenshots in my life. other than some camera issues that could easily be fixed with a patch the game is amazing
I don't ever spend money on video games unless I see enough gameplay. However, seeing the trailer, the very minimal gameplay we received and the overall story of the game I just had to get it on the very first game. I was very confident that I was going to like this game that I went the extra mile and bought the deluxe version of it. Long story short, I was not disappointed. Great game, great story and great visual effects. So much even the Japanese people love it.

Мне очень понравилась эта игра , хоть я в неё и не играл. Просто хорошо , то что главный герой не баба , я рад что в ней нет нигеров и чёртовых феменисток. моя оценка 12/10.

Отличная игра - сюжет интересный, графика красивая, хороший открытый мир, интересные задания и много интересного оружия - 10/10.
A refreshing tale on the open world style where every frame is a screenshot worthy. The quests are relatively few but written and "shot" in the style of a Kurosawa film or a old style samurai anime and can range from ambushing mongols trying to frisk down some sake maker brewers to confronting a man claiming to be a Samurai and beginning a duel only for them to beg for mercy. The characters are all unique and sometimes unlikable or lovable. The only retractions are the occasional animation bug and the small attention to detail in moving up and down slopes. Most fun I have had since Witcher 3.

Very Nice game Graphics 10/10 Music 10/10 Story 10/10 Combat 8.5/10 because there’s no lock-on which is kinda sad tho... (who the f is that? I bet his car is yellow!) Open World 9/11 Samurai Buttocks when you enter the hot springs 10/10
A masterpiece in the the PS4 generation. This game is put along side with my ps4 favourites that include god of war, spiderman, horizon zero dawn and FF7 remake. The summary of my reasons for the score: Good: -Graphics are just stunningly beautiful with the use of vibrant colors of the environment and also the physics of the world that makes it come alive. -Story: a revenge story consisting of supurb voice acting and in depth characters that help you throughout your journey in recapturing the lands of Tsushima that has been taken by the mongol empire. -The lack of UI in gameplay makes the game even more immersive than most open world games. Clever use of foxes and wind to guide you to hidden gems and objectives, provides you the natural sense of wanting to explore more. -Combat: a smooth and fluid combat system that provides you different stances to approach different types of enemies and a large array of utilities available to make your fight much more exciting! The game truly makes you feel and fight like a samurai (if you choose that path of course). -The open world has many activites similar to AC but does it even better without the grind/pay wall to get you to the next main quest or acquiring a better gear. The bad: -Japanese dub, the game should of been recorded in japanese and have english as a dub feature for a more authentic experience as the japanese dub is off sync with the lips during dialogue. But the english voice acting is excellent and i don't see it as a reason to take points off. Overall: Ghost of Tsushima is a perfect samurai AC game i have been waiting decades for and when ubisoft does make a japanese AC game i don't think it will compare to this masterpiece. Every feature in this game has been polished and for that reason it's a must BUY on full price to help support Sukerpunch and this game itself.
This game is super fun! Combat and duels are amazing. I love being a samurai in a game that’s similar to red dead. The story is pretty predictable and really only kept my interest because I could see my armor in them. Storylines and quests seem to be a little stray with timelines as you can do side quests that mention things that have already happened. You will miss out on 50 percent of the story if you don’t play the side quests which I found out 2/3 through the main story. Also stealth in this game is too easy and kind of pointless as AI are dumb as bricks when compared to Last Of Us 2. Wish there was some unique environment interactions too. For the most part this is an amazing game with extremely fun gameplay and upgrades. However I feel there’s some glitches and fixes they could’ve made, maybe some more armor and unique gear, unique encounter, combat interactions. Pacing seems not well thought out and slow at some points, during nearly every quest you’ll find yourself walking 20 ft from a cutscene only to find yourself in another half ass cutscene. I wish they would just use the high level cut scenes and only when needed. There also isn’t any newgame plus which hurts the longevity I’ll play. I play this game solely for the combat and Japanese setting. And that wins me just enough but isn’t blowing me away. This game isn’t necessarily breaking any ground other then being the most beautiful Samurai/ninja game.
I am a huge fan of Japan,Samurais etc but no this is not what i was expecting. -The first thing that i didn't like is the graphics (THE GRAPHICS NOT THE ARTISTIC DESIGN) yea i stop from time to time to take photos and stuff because the world is very beautiful but no many textures are blurry,view distance is so low, the night is ugly and the reflections are all downgraded compared to the first gameplay reveal we saw. -For the gameplay part i hated the fact that they didn't have a lock on system for the enemies. The stealth is so silly mostly because of the bad AI and the animation system on the enemies. -Very easy even on hard -Bad lip sync especially on japanese, even on english. -The wind is supposed to guide you but if you open the map you can still guide ur self with it. -Plot wise is meh -The Cinematics remind me of Mafia 3, low budget, you know static cameras with ppl talking without interaction... But i liked the atmosphere,the exploration,the soundtrack and the art direction
within the first 20 mins of playing this game the graphics and feeling of the game made me want to straight up move me and my family to japan. I'm not even done with the game yet and whenever I turn it on I get amped up my two kids freak out when I turn it on they like it just as much as I do. I would highly recommend this game to anyone who wants to feel like they are saving the samurai way of life.
Such an amazing game. Well deserved. The colors. The side stories the map is amazing. The camera. The black and white version!!!! Hell yes! What an amazing game. The culture

Let me start by simpling saying I love that game. The beginning is a little slow but pursue and once you start to enhance your skills the combat becomes truly enjoyable and the story start to shape into something really interesting to follow. The graphics and art style are stunning!. I mean who knew PS4 (in my case a pro) could display such astonishing graphics. I found myself wondering around and stopping at locations to just enjoy the soothing visuals. I seldom take photos in games but GOT has almost made me a photo addict helped by the simple process of clicking right to access the photo mode. When Sucke Punch announced there will not be waypoints to the objective I got worried but I can say that the natural system of using wind and animals to guide you to where yo need to go works really well. I really cannot stress out how enjoyable the game is. It can become a little repetitive and some of the side missions may feel more like a filler but I found myself spending hours playing this game an, often, finding it difficult to stop playing. A close tie to the LOU2 for game of the year.
A breathe taking game with awe inspiring landscapes and brutally honest combat around every corner. Ghost of Tsushima is the game I waited a life time to play and thought we’d never get because there were too many samurai-esk games out already. I’ve wanted to explore feudal Japan in shiny clad armor and lerk in the grass with my straw ronin hat for a long time. I have Hokusai art all through my house if tells you anything and can never pass up a epic Japanese tale. This has been a dream of mine. And here we are in 2020 and this might mark my favorite game to date. Now that’s not for lack of it actually being a great game. If it wasn’t rewarding and fun to play, if the story, lack of hud, and wonderfully orchestrated events and combat didn’t come together so amazingly I would be ripping my controller in half from a life time of anticipation ending in disappointment but luckily my controllers are safe as this is an amazing game to play and everything I ever dreamed. It’s fun, it’s difficult at times, it’s rewarding, it’s sad, it’s a roller coast that just keeps going! My only suggestion would be to get out there and play it for yourself. Turn off the phone, shut the laptop, and get lost in an amazingly put together journey.

best game i played in 2020 the game is so beautiful and nice story and characters never felt bored when playing it , wish i can find more games like that

The game is awesome. The way the intro was done is spectacular. Undoubtedly, the open world is so appealing and rich that at times I got myself focusing more on side quests rather than main missions. Also, soundtrack is captivating as well. Must-Play!!!
Ghost of Tsushima is a game that people have been asking to be made for the last 10 years. Given that we wanted a samurai game based in Japan, it was only natural to assume that Assassins Creed would be brand name behind it. However... AC has changed over the years to accommodate the popular open world formula, leaving behind its combat mechanics that made it so well known. And so... Sucker Punch took that base platform and ran with it, pushing those combat mechanics further than before. But this time, stealth is optional, not preferred. In fact, the blade on blade combat takes the spotlight as we live out a long awaited fantasy in a heavily romanticized location. Everything about this game looks and feels great. A perfect send off for the ps4!
A Game filled to the brim with Beauty and Brutality, it is the Assassin's Creed in Japan people have asked for for years, but better. Well worth the wait, and Jin is a fantastic protagonists that grows from beginning to end.
Wow. I mean, wow. A graphically stunning game, with excellent gameplay, and an engaging, timeless story. The best thing I’ve played on PS4 since God of War.
I highly recommend this game! It has amazing graphics, gameplay, Japanese settings are done right and this game really makes you feel like samurai. What about the story nothing to say it's great, emotional and so Japanese (how it supposed to be) never played such a beautiful game. This is definitely must-play game.


so ilike because its very kiri and tokhmi ba kire japanioe tokhme sag madar jendeh ke harshab kunmideh. va nanash harzas ke moghola va changiz nanashuno migan kose nnt madarjende kiram tu metaciritic ke behesh 83 midin madarjende h kharkombehe harumzadehh madar be khataye kharkkosedefudjfj
It sure is pretty but a closer look reveals a game that is unpolished and quite generic. The story so far is very predictable. It doesn’t stand with other games from years ago like Red Dead ll or most recently The Last Of Us Part ll.


Like this game very much! The battle system is quite well designed, there are many variations that you can use to defeat your enemies, and it is not as difficult as games like nioh or sekiro. Excellent graphics, many things to explore with a very nice navigation system.
What a game! This game will never be forgotten. Loved precious Sucker Puch games but this one is just on another level. Visual style and sound design are amazing. Combat is way too good. Dont wait for the price drop buy this game right now!
I played around 10 to 15 hours and from this perspective this game is awesome! It's super atmospheric and the combat is so much fun, the pure swordfights are super cool and the stealth is also fun The story is cool, but my most favorite part is to just run through the world and take the quest which I find first, I love spending time in this game There's a little negative point about this game, this being some minor bugs occurring from time to time. But everything else, especially the graphics, are amazing This game could become my goty
Amazing game the combat is top notch, the graphics are right up there! The setting in Japan with the art work is truly beautiful! Story so far been really good to, contender for game of the year! One of my favourite exclusives now! Hope suckerpunch bring some DLC or create another samurai game after this, first game in a while that I want to 100%

I didn't expect this game. But now I can say just one thing: the history of gaming separates before ghost of tsushima and after. This is the best game ever, Sucker Punch did an amazing work! All developers need to learn to do their games with so much love to the gamers. Amazing story, amazing mechanics, beautiful side-quests, and so much soul in game. Great job, guys, u are the number one from this time. Thank you, thank you, thank you!
And absolutely beautiful open game with visceral combat. A game praised and supported by Japan as well as their gaming critics and journalists, show Sucker Punch took great care and respect of Ghost of Tsushima. This is the best way to end the PS4, highly recommend.
im loving this game. good and fresh world. It's everything that I was hoping it would be.
No esperaba mucho del juego y la verdad me sorprendió mucho en su historia y visualmente es un juego que te deja sorprendido con su calidad 10/10 superaron mis expectativas
Amazing through and through the ONLY issue is the syncing being off but that’s it I’ve put over 20 hours into it already and I haven’t even finished the first act. Everything is fresh and new and the combat standout tremendously! 10/10
Um the the witcher 3 de samurais. Perfeito muito poucos bug nós lançamento. Um game pra jogar a vida toda perfeito

This is the game I always wanted to play. The art, the story, the sword combat are all exactly want I'd hoped they would be. It's a samurai cinema experience brought to life... thoughtful, mature, bloody!
Jogo excelente, missões secundárias muito boas, até mesmo chegam a ser melhores que a missão principal, cenários lindos, impossível andar 10 metros sem abrir modo foto, o jogo realmente teve downgrade, mas continua lindo e não atrapalha em nada, combate maravilhoso cheio de habilidades Que realmente são uteis
The game is beautiful in every way, wherever you explore from the meadows to the highest peaks of Tsushima, it takes your breath away. One of the best exploration mechanics I've seen and it's fun, following the gust of wind to your destination, the golden bird to a point of interest or foxes to the Inari shrine. Combat is superb.
The design of this game is something unseen in any other open world game of this type. The Guiding wind is brilliant idea, one which I wish was in more games. The game looks stunningly beautiful, the combat is fun and engaging and the world exploration doesn't feel like a chore.


Otimo jogo um dos top 5 da geração otimos graficos boa jogabilidade to curtindo bastante

I’m about 25 hours in and it’s one of the finest games I have ever played. The hours melt away, and the normal tedium of open world map collection grinding is non-existent. The combat is smooth, simple enough to learn but difficult enough to master and exceptionally rewarding. The visuals, my god the visuals. This game has the Samurai aesthetic down pat. If you have ever seen a jidaigeiki, your jaw will drop at the impressive way they have managed to incorporate some of these themes, but still surprise you. Words cannot do justice as to how good I think this game is.

Não é um jogo único, mas ele inova em muitos elementos. O jogo é muiito lindo (há problemas em texturas), tem um combate delicioso que você sente um desânimo quando acaba, pois sempre quer mais. A história é bem legal, nada sublime, mas legal tem umas missões secundárias bem legais. Mas o mais interessante é a imersão você se sente na ilha (recomendo ativar o modo especialista), o cenário lindo te guia para os objectivos através do vento que movimenta praticamente cada árvore, dos pássaros e das raposas. Os NPC interagem com você, se reverenciando por que você um lorde afinal. Isso é muito bom é bem feito. É um jogo impressionante é muito viciante. Tem o melhor modo foto de todos os jogos já lançados. Se você viu review e ficou em dúvida é melhor você mesmo testar.
Best Game in 2020 ! It’s a piece of ART Can’t imagine what is see ! Gameplay 10/10 Graphics 10/10 Soundtrack 10/10 World 10/10 Characters 10/10 Story 10/10 It’s a masterpiece game !!!

This is the most beautiful game I have ever played. The combat system is amazing and made me feel like a real samurai. This game is a real masterpiece! well done Sucker Punch!
Это отличная игра и великолепный отыгрыш. Каждая игрожуро-блядь, что обосрёт эту игру - выблядыш суки.
اعتقد ان قوست اوف تسوشيما تعتبر من أفضل الألعاب لهذا الجيل لعبه ممتعه وجميله جدا وأنصح بها جدا
The only thing I would knock if I was nitpicking and biased is the camera. Best game I've played in a very long time. Visuals 10 Combat 10 Music 10 Story 10 Fun factor 20
This game is incredible, everything is beautiful in GOT, fights, horseback riding, landscapes with the sunset everything is incredible The combat mode is very addictive we have several types of combat steatlh and samurai combat we also have stances for various types of enemies, I have approximately 15H of game the game is incredible But of course the game has its negative sides, it has bugs of course which game is without bugs isn't it true? Well I put this score because the game is really good Thanks and have a good game with Ghost of Tsushima
This game is so amazing the story the exploration and the character evolving with self conflict is all incredible and of course the graphics are gorgeous and the side tales keep me engage throughout the story

Признаю что 10-ка это не объективная оценка игре, но всё познается в сравнении! Кстати советую в настройках чувствительно камеры повысить, нет захвата цели и нужно самому крутить головой. За час привык.
Definitely worth the purchase! This game sucks you in - one of the most immersive graphic and audio experience in years. Rare wow factor. Sony pump money into sucker punch! Needs a bit of work on the side quest story telling/ complexity - which if they hit it out the park as they did the rest of the game it would have taken it to an easy 10 - thank you SP
ghost of tsushima is a monster, an incredible game that might be the beginning of something better, which i hope would become in one of the main playstation's ips
Amazing fresh combat, good challenge already on medium settings. I had to switch from hard to medium on first "boss fight". Great atmosphere, I finished the whole story in one day which happens only to GOTY games for me. I hope this game gets all the love it deserves. Thank you SP, worth every penny. Negative: there are some bugs while jumping on somethings, your character is in flying animation. Would be good if its fixed in updates because its something that should never happen...

Amazing scenario, fun quests, the type of the game to sit back, relax and have fun. The combat on hard is very doable and the open world setting is amazing, it's very fun to explore the game world.
Samurai open world with great combat and Beautiful storytelling! It is so pretty. It is like a japanese witcher
This game is simply amazing I'm around 20 hours in but cannot put my controller down, because the gameplay is so much fun. The side stories about the supporting characters are great. I'm just in a third of the main story but I'm enjoying it so far. If I will something that I don't like I will edit my score. I forgot sometimes the camera doesn't act as you would wish but it's nothing terrible.



This is the most beautiful game I’ve ever played. Worth every goddamn second of exploration.



Amazing game. Graphics are absolutely gorgeous and the gameplay mechanics and progression keep combat interesting throughout the game. Tonnes of stuff to do within the masterly crafted world and a very intriguing story. There’s no way you can see everything in this game the first play through, which allows this game to have a very high replay factor. The Only faults I can voice would be faults you’ll usually find with all open world RPG’s. Nevertheless, This game is potentially the best open world game I’ve ever played.
This game is the perfect samurai game, the world is so beautiful you feel immersed in it. Everything is moving with the wind, the music is also perfect. Combat is amazing, intense, gory and difficult, specially at the beginning I was dying so much until I got some updates. This game still has its flaws like when assassinating enemies that are sitting they instantly appear standing up or in general the ghost format is buggy and enemies are really dumb. What his game is missing is polish, if this was a polished game I would give it a 10 instantly but the bugs and some scenes look too scripted so it kinda breaks the inmersion. Amazing game , 9/10
Having an absolute blast with Ghost of Tsushima. The combat took a little getting used to, but now that I’ve gotten the hang of it I’m very much enjoying myself. Graphics, story, setting, everything is on point. Sucker Punch really out did themselves and it’s paying off. You should 100% check this game out.
Gráficos incríveis... Narrativa envolvente gameplay insana.. joguem e se deslumbrem com essa maravilha de jogo... depois de The last of us parte 2 concertesa eu achei que seria difícil de ver outro game nesse nível de qualidade.
Everything about this game is amazing. It may not be very innovative, but the combat and exploration are too satisfying to say it is just ok. The world is overflowing with colors and aesthetic.
What an incredible and beautiful game. I never loved exploring a game so much than this one. The gameplay is good and and fights are stunning. Artistically, it’s the most beautiful game I ever saw. The scenario is good, personally I liked it. Goty for me.



When I seen it was Sucker Punch who was working on this game I immediately knew I was getting it. The inFamous series is one of my favorite game series and I had total faith in SP and they certainly delivered. There is a vast variety of stuff to do in the world, customizations and so much more. The story is great and the gameplay is a blast. I couldn’t recommend it enough.
Without doubt, one of the best games if the generation. Sucker Punch created a masterpiece. Combat flows like water, the world is gorgeous, and the gameplay is FUN!
I didn't have very high expectations seeing as open world games can be pretty boring and repetitive these days. Boy was I pleasantly surprised. This is exactly what I was looking for from a samurai/ ninja game. Buy it. You won't be disappointed.
one the best games that i enjoy in my whole life . i am so proud of myself to be one of the playstation family. thank you beacuse of great games that you give us.
I have been playing this game for more than 20 hours and i’m not even half way through. This game keeps on giving even when i thought I’m done with the area, SP did a great work that it gave us something fun by combining the positivities of the open-world genre in one game to give is a dynamic, fun and beautiful. The writing is emotionally driven i felt anger, sympathetic, sadness and betrayed and I’m just through the first act, this is simply a fun game to play and I think all the negative critic reviews ironically “review bombing” ghost of Tsushima for some weird reasons. I highly suggest buying the game, and if CP 2077 will not be nominated for this year due to its release date then IMO Ghost is GOTY without a real competition.
Without a doubt one of the best games I've ever played and without a doubt game of the year for me. Honestly might even actually get the real game of the year award. Took everything an open world game needs and blended it together wonderfully. Thanks sucker punch, can't put this one down.
It’s may not perfect game for everyone but if you love Samurai movie like me it’s just perfect,Graphics are great The island of Tsushima looks riches and colorful,Combat system is solid and challenging,Enemy Ai may be a little bit stupid but it’s just a little thing

Sucker punch did it i had low expectations and they blew me away this game is a masterpiece and it truly makes you feel like a real samurai. I definitely recommend this game its a work of art.

THE GHOST OF TSUSHIMA REVIEW: Twelve Hours into Open World Exploration The Ghost of Tsushima is the samurai game that Assassins’ Creed could never be because the Samurai Code, as explained early on in the game, is about showing respect to your enemy even as he bleeds at your feet begging for mercy. Thus, the shadows will remain your tactic until you upgrade your armor, gear and technique so that you are taking on more challengers in standoffs and then combat. Perhaps this is why the stealth AI needs a patch to get up to speed. Sucker Punch does not delay with the gorgeous visuals and the opening scene becomes one of the most beautiful I have ever played as the beaches of Komoda are lit up with Mongol firebombs. The nature of the adversaries are also immediately set in the opening scene when Khotun Khan (relations to Genghis Khan) informs that his men have been infiltrating Tsushima while the Samurai have merely concentrated on the battle. This is an accurate allusion to the genuine tactics of the Mongols in the thirteenth century when they had sent emissaries to Japan prior to invasion. The open-world is available following an opening screen and score that gave me goosebumps; it is easily the most beautiful open world that I have ever played. There is a clear tradeoff between realistic graphics and beauty and Sucker Punch has used it to produce an ethereal game with scenes that deserve to be printed and laminated as art. The details in individual blades of grass, stars, leaves and ripples in the water kept me simply riding or playing the bamboo flute for a good two hours. This requires a special mention of my Dapple Horse, Kage, who enjoys the flute and will nod and step his hoofs to the melody. The protagonist is the young samurai Jin Sakai, the last surviving member of the Sakai clan. He is the trained stoic samurai and is hesitant to shift from his code and this could be his defining personality, but Jin is revealed in his interactions with NPCs and introspections to be clever, brave and humble. There are also moments of levity and sarcasm that tie his personality neatly and Sucker Punch has created a believable protagonist with the foresight and intelligence to organise a resistance against the Mongols. Daisuke Tsuji’s voice fits Jin Sakai perfectly. Combat mechanics are smooth and every button-press has weight so that spamming will end in ugly deaths unfit for a samurai and you are required to learn the sequences and combos. A personal favourite of mine is completing the bamboo sword challenges, the smooth strike of the correct combination is immensely satisfying. The combat is detailed and success requires paying attention to the style of your enemy; this is enabled by decomposing combat into stances and then supplementing with techniques and their upgrades. The shadows are not completely abandoned and tactical ghost weapons will feature when facing multiple enemies. There is no lock-on feature and this does get frustrating, perhaps it can be patched, but I can learn to live with it. There are details to this game that make it an absolute win for the whole family, such as the cute foxes we can pet, the pretty golden birds that take you to breathtaking locations atop mountains and in hot springs, the fireflies and pollen that light up the scenes, and the wind. I love the wind, as someone who dislikes minimaps, this game has done an absolute winner with the wind mechanics. The Ghost of Tsushima expects you to interact with your surroundings and you will appreciate the beauty of the perfect scenery. Additionally, so far, I have composed two haikus that have given me beautiful headbands and I am on a quest to gather the flowers to dye my armor to match. It is too early for me to comment on the story and as someone who spent 230 hours on AC Odyssey and only concentrated on the main story in the last 50 hours, I am not in a rush. The multitude of sidequests add to the depth of the main story and you meet strangers who divulge rumours about interesting places and people. I will say that it started fast and Jin’s journal plans an effective strategy to raise a resistance against the invaders. This is a fitting end to a truly memorable generation in gaming.
Игра ощущается очень кайфово, да в ней есть огрехи, как в принципе и во всех играх (разве что рдр2 прошёл и обмазался качеством работы игры), но этой игре все прощаешь за счёт очень приятного визуала и множества приятного контента: рубка бамбука (советую глянуть соответсвующие видосы на ютубе ирл Японии), жопа при горячих источниках (привет death stranding), боевая система не напряжная на высокой сложности надо попотеть, слегка отдаёт sekiro но все же тут проще и эффектнее, ну и это хорошо получаешь удовольствие и небольшой челендж от сражений, хочется ещё больше драться. Ну и не могу не отметить творческую сторону игры: хоку вызывает восторг и музыкальное сопровождение тупа кайф, поклоны и стряхивание кровяхи с клинка это вообще жесткий Флекс вощем покорило мое сердечко. А самое главное без чушни в сюжете, все понимают что идёт война, говорят о ней и о проблемах возникших из-за неё. Слышал вонь по поводу пафоса, но если бы люди хоть немного знали культуру то поняли что так жили(живут?) самураи, кодекс бусидо в помощь. Для постмодерна - пафос, для метамодерна - искренность и достоинство. Игра как произведение искусства, хочу пройти игру второй раз в режиме куросавы (фильмы топ). Пример того чем должна быть игра - искусством, а не потакание социальным трендам которым место на форумах а не в произведениях искусства. Советую посмотреть «самурай чамплу» там одного из самураев озвучивает актёр главного героя игры. 10/10 друзья, всех люблю развивайте бодхичитту и читайте нэмбуцу.

the game does have errors, but the same errors that 90% of the industry has, now it is rich in details, faithful in every way to the samurai and ancient Japanese translations, I am having a lot of fun and for me it is more than 10
Excellent graphics and story and an atmosphere that takes you in completely. A game that is as tough to put down as it is refreshingly without political agenda.
This year Sony has had some of the best exclusives I've played (FF7 Remake, this game; Ghost of Tsushima) and then some of the worst (The last of us 2). This shows a worrying dichotomy and huge lack of faith in, or growing disonesty from big name journalists (IGN, Polygon, VG 24/7 etc) whom players are meant to trust. Never again will these journalists be trusted; only seen as a joke. Why? FF7 Remake was scored an 8/10 bizarrely, this brilliant game scored a 9/10, whilst the disastrous and very poor story/characters of TLOU2 gave it a 10?. Ghost of Tsushima far, far surpasses TLOU2, in terms of non linear open world gameplay, solid enjoyable gameplay, combat, physical exploration, some puzzling, and most of all a fantastic story and characters. The visuals are some of the most pretty I've seen alongside RDR2. The combat better than the Witcher by a fair margin (it feels solid and every strike meaningful) there's alot of skills to unlock and even different fighting stances. Plus crafting and generous customizing/gear dying to make the hero Jin Sakai your own. The music and sound effects are done well, and the voice acting very good. The only thing I could honestly fault is the stepping down or dropping (not climbing) from rocks and ledges can be a bit janky. Overall, a fantastic game, probably one of the best Japanese sword games I've played since Tenchu made it's debut on PS1. And a Sony exclusive that washes away the bad memory and journalists lies of TLOU2.

The gameplay is so good and satisfying. Every strike had its weight. The side missions is unique and the progression system feels simple yet so deep and has a lot of variety. This game is certainly worth your hard earned money. Go buy it now.
This game is amazing! From the graphics to the stunning sound effects. I love the fact that I spent the first 12 hours of my time with it doing side quests and just exploring every nook and cranny. The combat system is dynamite and made me feel like a total bad ass. Some combat encounters were very challenging but never seemed unfair. This is an amazing way for Sony to transition to next generation. In my opinion this is the game of the year thus far....insert cyberpunk. Not TLOU2 which was a train wreck and an absolute abomination, Neil druckman ruined that franchise!

This game is truly the “game of a generation”. Let’s start with the graphics , there amazinggg, the story is engaging and doesn’t involve tiger woods

Nice game. La historia es increíble y me recuerda al cine japonés clásico, la música es muy envolvente y memorable, los gráficos son alucinantes y el modo foto es como un sueño hecho realidad. el combate es muy impresionante, el único pequeño defecto es cuando los enemigos son golpeados por flechas, parece tonto.
I loved every second of this game I mostly liked the gameplay, story, and most important the side missions stories are incredible reminds me with Witcher 3 and the world is amazing , definitely you will spend a lot of time in photo mode because it is stunning and I haven’t seen anything or any game like it. Sucker Punch win my heart.k

Beautiful game. Stunning graphics, does not disappoint. Side missions actually reward you and have it’s own story with it aside with the actual story line. Amazing story line overall!
I liked the game very much. I do not come off the game, it draws me in. I really like her style, I really love medieval Asia. I liked Sekiro, but it was very difficult and this game is perfect for me.
This game is really something.. Battle system is perfect, the exploration is so much fun with all landscape and the sound of wind that makes you relax.. This is the best game ever.. Good job developer.. Ps: sorry if my english so awfull

I usually don't give games anything above a 9/10 on the principle that there is never a perfect game. However as I have been playing Ghost of Tsushima from the moment it released, I can find nothing I would want to change. The world is visually stunning and immersive. The mechanics feels smooth and purpose driven. Exploration is rewarded with gear, swords, hot springs, and haikus (one of my favorite parts). The story is impactful and evolving showing a developing mental and emotional state in the lead character. Jin struggles with following the traditions of the Samurai code or leaning into the dishonorable world of assassination. The mechanics and narative even make you feel dishonorable as you play in stealth but reward you with a sense of propriety when facing foes straight on as dictated by the Samurai code. I don't mean to sound like a fan boy, it has been a while since I have connected with a game this much. A truthful 10/10 from me.

Awesome Game, must play game of PS4, it is fun game which uses the open world to engage player effectively, killer gameplay, hard but fun combat .....

One of the best games i played this gen!Good story without identity politics shoved in, beatiful setting packed with excelent graphics and quick loading times and on top of that a combat system so satisfying that on contrary on other games where i avoid repetitive encounters i actually want to engage in combat cause is one of the best combat mechanics since dragon'ss dogma. Apart from some textures pop ups and some minor bugs the game is flawless. Well done sucker punch!
Last 2 days, we've been playing nonstop. Great atmosphere and graphics. Side quests are super fun. Storyline is emotional. And there's a fox. Game is a f**** masterpiece.
A game that truly makes you feel like a samurai, ninja or both. Having a beautiful world, interesting characters, excellent voice over and subtitle options as well as genuine Japanese beliefs and character building (you can design your character your own way, and while some options help make the game much easier and more fast paced) you can truly advance as any build you like though some may make the game more difficult. I enjoy this game so much and love its diverse playstyle so much I wanted to give it a 10. The drawbacks I've found were minor but some movement issues and a few weapon tracking issues keep it from being perfect. Still, if you are a fan of sword fighting, samurai movies or games or good action games this one's for you! I personally feel that assassins cred games should take a good look at this game and add our use aspects of its stealth, enemy actions and combat.
Шедевр! Игра 2020 года! Шикарный сюжет,побочные миссии,боёвка,ну и конечно открытый мир невероятно интересный и красивый! 10/10



I've been waiting for a game like this for 20 years. Ghost of tsushima is hell of a game. Gameplay : the gameplay is really fast and challenging. You have lots of different skill to choose from. Story : so far I liked side quests more than story missions, some of side quests are really awesome specially that ghost mission in woods.
Guys, this game is amazing. I spent 20 hours with her so far and I can't stop playing. Gameplay is awesome, wonderful world and great atmosphere, you feel like you are there. I recommend playing with Japanese dialogues. One of the most beautiful open world game in this generation. Sucer Punch you got me, Congratulations!


Fantastic game , graphics look beautiful the combat is very fun and the main character grows on you at such a nice pace and the exploration is so relaxing at times. The is a few minor bugs here and there but nothing that would take you out of the experience


Just wow this game does so much right it’s incredible l. Absolutely insane graphics especially render distance and story is amazing. Must play 10/10
Holy **** **** This is the greatest Samurai game this generation. Story, Presentation, Graphics are top notch .Sekiro and Nioh are just novelty games. Kurosawa would've been proud. 10/10 -FU Gamespot.


This game is amazing. Delivering amazing combat along with many techniques available to improve your combat, stealth and archery skills. The story is well written, along with amazing side characters and stories. The environment of Ghost Of Tsushima is beautiful. Possibly the most beautiful game I’ve played to date. Jin is a great protagonist. One of the things that I love about him is that he sort of acts like Kratos and Samurai Jack, who don’t seem to talk as much but when they do it sounds plain, and that is because Jin was trained to control his emotions and keep them aside at times since he was young, making him an interesting protagonist. He also does not stop fighting until the poor and weak are safe, which shows the hero in him and love it.
This is a great game. The visuals are stunning, probably the best I have ever seen on PS4. Sucker Punch has done a great job of portraying the Japanese culture and landscape, probably the best i've ever seen. The Combat ist surprisingly challenging and deep if you are playing on hard difficulty. I had feared that the combat would be a dumbed down button mashing experience like in Assassins Creed but it surprised me how engaging and diverse it is. If you played Sekiro before then it is fair to say that Tsushima does not need to hide. On top of that it is refreshing that the Open World is not a boring, superficial and repetitive Ubisoft formula type but rather filled with interesting and memorable side-quests on par with the Witcher 3.
Quite possibly the most thoroughly beautiful game I've seen to date. Excellent combat, thoughtful and engaging sidequests and activities, unbeatable overall feel... I simply have no complaints.




El juego es muy entretenido, me encanto el combate, la exploración, la historia, los personajes y las misiones secundarias y eventos del mundo. Lo que sentí que le faltó fue en las animaciones de parkour y la animación cuando derrumban a Jin con un barrido de lanza, sería mi única queja con el juego.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the games that surprised me most in this generation. An impeccable story, excellent gameplay, stunning graphics showing perhaps the most beautiful game I have ever played and seen. The artistic direction of this game is to be congratulated,. Every moment of this adventure is spent in a place as or more beautiful than the previous one. As an open world game, it has its flaws, but they are far from disturbing the immersive experience in which this environment places us. Great side missions as opposed to many games in recent years, missions that I really enjoy playing, with good stories, rewarding and without much repetition. I definitely recommend this game.
This game is great. It innovates a lot of the open-world games and is so pretty and fun to play. This is absolutely not like AC, I play it on hard mode. Story is great too. Best game this year.
This game is a masterpiece in my opinion. Great story Satisfying gameplay gorgeous open world that encourages exploration. I can see this game winning GOTY.


Best open world game this generation with tons of great side activities and secondary stories, great deep combat, awesome main story... highly recommended.
Very enjoyable and beautiful. The combat, the story, the environment. Everything in this game traslades the player in a slow and beautiful way through it's world wanting you to never leave it till the end.
Из-за травы я не вижу когда отпускать кнопку во время поединка.
Игра для высоковибрационных людей, которые могут в прекрасное, в древнюю культуру Японии , в кредо бусидо, самопознанию, любовь к мирозданию и бытию , любовь к природе. Геймплей, сюжет, геймплей - шикарны. Высоковибрационный интернет не оценил , играя на пляжу. Лучший эксклюзив Сони, THANKS DEVELOPERS!

This game was absolutely amazing. If you are into samurais and feudal Japan this game portrays it incredibly. Combat is terrific and personally I loved the story as well. The open World is absolutely beautiful and jam packed with things to do and places to explore.

Wow. Way better than that trash TLOU2. This is the game you are waiting for. A must have. Great gameplay, graphic, audio and story. What more can you ask for.



Get this game! I can’t believe how great of a job Sucker punch did with Ghost of Tsushima. I would rather play this game over and over than play another Assassin’s Creed. This game actually makes you feel every sword swing, but it also gives you the opportunity to play like an assassin if that’s your style. There are some bugs that I imagine will be patched soon. It reminds me of Jedi Fallen Order in that it’s a great game with some bugs at launch. I don’t think the bugs will bother most people. It’s one of the few games worth the $60. If the character had been a female, the game would have gotten a 9 out of 10 from the critics. Had it been a lesbian character then you’re probably looking at a 10/10 game from the critics. All the people want is a good game with none of the politics. Thanks, Sucker Punch.
One of the best games I've ever played! This is a must play for every PS4 owner and every fan of open world games. The graphics are the best I've seen so far on a playstation exclusive, the storyline is really good and gets you hooked from the get go, and combat and overall gameplay is a blast. Also, the side mission are very detailed and fun to play, they don't feel like fillers to extend your game time. Game of the year so far for me!

I don't want to give the score 10 just quite. I'm 17 hours in. Didn't even realize there are 3 separate map locations! The combat is so damn good once you get the hang of it. The story is great, visuals are not a 10 but they are close. GOW Tlou2 and HZD look better, but this game I have not taken so many pictures. It's just a different level of beauty. The combat and customization is unreal. The side quest are great as well. Must buy and Play! Sound and music are great as well. This is a 9.6 but I went 10 and rounded up
This game is a compilation of the good things of the various works of the past, and although it is not new, the quality of all the elements is very high. The combat system is simple but tense, the graphics are very good and it loads surprisingly fast. I'm Japanese, but the way I draw Japan is so good that I can't imagine I made this game in the US unless I was told. Of course, not everything is drawn faithfully, but I don't care because it is the result of pursuing the fun and romance of the game. Although there are some complaints about camera work etc., it's trivial in front of this amazing Samurai Simulator. Undoubtedly, this is one of the best PS4 titles.
Graphics are amazing Controls are very good Loads of content Brilliant boss fights The game causes you to think about how your gonna fight the bad guys you can't just run in swing away and walk out you have to be aware of your surroundings and your enemy type. There is so much more to this game it's defo GOTY. one of the best samurai games ever made.

How any critic could rate this game at 60 percent or 3/5 stars is beyond me. Just because a game doesn’t revolutionise a genre or do the unexpected with its story and kill its main characters off and subsequently show a complete disregard for narrative and good story telling (aka last of us 2) doesn’t mean it isn’t worthy. GoT takes a well tried platform, being the open world game, and launches to it to new heights with incredible graphics and lush landscapes to explore, wonderful characters and voice acting and exquisite combat with extensive upgrade options and skill trees. It’s the perfect open world samurai adventure
O combate desse jogo os gráficos a dublagem cara está muito top e gostoso de jogar, esse jogo me viciou de uma maneira que meu Deus não consigo parar de jogar, claro que tem seus defeitos mas em compensação tudo que sitei já justifica é isso.

Graphics: While it’s on par with most current gen games and not necessarily outstanding in fidelity, the art is absolutely stunning, parts of the game world are so beautiful I just stopped to admire in the highly detailed photo mode which allows you to fine tune every detail to your liking. Gameplay: It reconciled aspects of the souls genre with something more accessible like AS. Creed, however it adds its own flavour with its unique samurai techniques. Throwing a smoke bomb,m to blind a group, sneaking up on the leader, killing the others with quick Kunai and then finishing off with a brutal special technique, the cool moments are endless and player choice is empathised through the ability to switch between Ghost and Samurai seamlessly. As an open world game this borrows heavily from Breath of the Wild, minimising any kind of UI and creating a very organic feeling world in which discoveries are endless, separating it the run of the mill games in an exhausted genre. Story : This is heavily rooted in Japanese lore and shows great respect for the culture, it’s hard to to be charmed by the Samurai dialogue and anime like themes, ultimately it feels like a very well done traditional movie which lends the game a great atmosphere. Unlike the Last of Us 2 the game doesn’t go for unnecessary shock value or excessive gore, the story feels much more believable and the violence contextually appropriate, leading to a much more consistent, principled and satisfying narrative. Perhaps player choice isn’t integrated as well as in the Infamous series for the sake of telling a cohesive plot, though the theme of conflict between the ghost and the samurai code is compelling enough. Overall, this is the best PlayStation exclusive since God of War and for those disappointed with TLOU2 this may be the refreshment you need!

Better than The Last of Us Part II PS3 has The Last of Us Part PS4 has Ghost of Tsushima Best Ending for PS4
Simply one of the best games I have ever played. One of the most beautiful environments in gaming history! Great Storyline and Great combat. Amazing photo Mode. The only downside I have with the game are the bugs and the cutscenes some times act strange like the audio dropping significantly on one of the npc speaking. 9.5 Out of 10 for Me. Must Play!
Шикарная игра что потрясающий сеттинг и реализация проделана большая работа. Отличное занавес для поколения PS4.


10/10 graphics 9/10 story 10/10 game play, best samurai game I ever played and i love that they didn’t include gay **** like Neil dickman put in LOUP2


Emotional and investing story, likeable protagonist, great combat and fun stealth mechanics when it comes to agility and skills etc. This makes you feel like you're playing inside of an old classic samurai film.
This game is so good that I need to review it, I never felt as immersed in a game as I feel in Tsushima. The game is a visual spectacle,I would be lying if I didn't say thats i have spent a few hours in photo mode. The combat is absolutely incredible, I really feel like a samurai in Feudal Japan. Sucker Punch offers an incredible job and deserves all the credits.
❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
Невероятно стильная и атмосферная игра. Хокку, святилища и горячие источники - лишь малая толика наполняющих этот мир деталей. Хочется исследовать его, наблюдать за ним, созерцая прекрасные образы золотого храма, утопающего в золотом лесу. Однозначно, одна из самых иммерсивных игр, в которые когда либо играл.
A beautiful game. This game is very unique. I love when you use the Ghost mode you get flashbacks about that it is bad. Also in this open world you get a lot of rewards. The story is also cool and fun. Side missions are also fun to do. Love this game absolutely a masterpiece.

Эта самая лучшая игра 2020 года. Безумно красивая графика, великолепный геймплей и что самое главное, интересный сюжет.
I have literally joined Metacritic today just to write this review. I feel a little bit sorry for Sucker Punch to be honest, they have made a masterpiece of a game and a few reviewers have gave it average scores. These scores seem to be based on such minor niggles. One of the reviewers had scored this years ff7 remake higher which quite frankly is a joke. Ff7 remake was a good game but was content filled with some of the most boring gaming I have experienced in a decade. Ghost of Tsushima is in the same league as Zelda breath of the wild. The combat is amazing and rewarding, the game world is detailed and engaging. Don’t let the professional reviewers average Scores put you off this is one of PS4’s finest.

It's a totally amazing game and another great Playstation exclusive. Its setting and incredible graphics make you stay fascinated and wanting to play the game more. I give it a ten because with what little I have played I have realized that it is a masterpiece. His photo mode is the best.
Absolutely love everything about this game. I suggest playing on hard for the most enjoyable experience. It's such a beautiful game that I get distracted extremely easily doing side quests and exploring to such an extent I spent 30 hours in act one. Could not have asked for a better way to end the ps4 generation.
Absolutely amazing. I've been waiting for an open world samurai game for years. I don't really like the way of the samurai games, and when this was announced I was ecstatic. So my hopes were pretty high It is just so hauntingly beautiful. The idea of using wind as a guide is one of the best ideas in gaming I've seen in so long. I really hope more games take this approach, and start dropping items off of your HUD. One of the best games this generation
Perfect game, 10/10 , just wish for a bit harder difficulty and scaling enemies. Like having 6 enemies form a circle around you and attacking at the same time, forcing the player to do 6 perfect parries.
amazing game experience . if u were looking to old japan samurai game here u go sry for pc gamers not having much fun as ps4 having now. looking for subequal on the better machine ps5
전체적으로 오픈월드 분위기는 레드 데드 리뎀션 2와 비슷합니다. 내리는 비 표현 구린것도 같고.. 1대1 전투는 제다이 오더의 몰락이 생각나고 다인전은 옛날 어쌔신크리드 시리즈의 전투가 생각나는데 적의 무기마다 상대 하는 방법을 다르게 해놔서 지루하지 않아서 좋았습니다.
Amazing game So far I am 20 +hours in to the game and it is absolutely amazing .. graphics wise the game is beautiful .. the game play you actually feel like a samurai .. compared to ac it's better .. the sword feels like you are slicing through dudes the enemies are not damage sponges . You are actually carrying a sword not a wooden stick where you are slapping the guy lol a def buy

This game is one of my favorite games of 2020! The combat is really fun and the story is interesting. The setting is so beautiful, I find myself taking photos with the excellent photo mode all the time. This game is great!
Un juego precioso con temática y narrativa estupenda, los combates son muy entretenidos, el juego es atrayente de principio a fin. Se trata de un juego de 10, prácticamente perfecto en todos los apartados.







Story was visually great; Some of the side quests had a little repetition.( Too me) The way the wind would guide you to your destination was fascinating. All around a great game because i got it for the story. Worth the money to play for story.

If TLoU2 was anything above 5, then this game is definitely a 10. And I am not kidding, this game is 9 or 10! The game is not perfect but the entertainment value is great and those parts that are not perfect is excused by the parts that are more than perfect. I sincerely had a blast playing this game and even if it may not be as “refined” as for instance RDR2, it is still at least as great of a game but more fun than any other open world game this generation. If one loves or even likes the samurai-genre, this game is a must. The game has strong women and strong men as it should have as a modern game, even if it is a historic setting. But the game is first foremost and last just that, a game. And a game should be fun and entertaining to play and this game delivers on so many fronts. This is together with HZD and RDR2 my favorite games this generation and this may be my absolute favorite! I am married to a Japanese woman since 14 years now and I am a historian by education even if I do not work with history at the moment. And the game is not very historical at all except for the fundamental premise of a mongol invasion of Tsushima, but that does not matter at all since the studio have chosen fun and cool before historical correctness. And I have to say that they struck a perfect balance with this game! Play it, this is a must play and a great last win for Sony before the PS5 is released.
This game is refreshing, so much to do. I hope this game won the GAME OF THE YEAR. Graphics and cinematic is SUPERIOR. I love this game.


It's such a poetic game. Often times you feel like standing there and write Haikus, then realize that you'd embarrass yourself. But still, they poetry encompass you. Game play is satisfying, but not top notch, graphic is clearly an artistic choice. So, if you perfect why a 10 and not a 9 or an 8? Because Sucker Punch made very pro-consumer declaration about listening to critical voices. So the game is a 9. The pro-consumer attitude bumps it up to 10.
The dream come true a samurai open world game with great Graghics and awesome combat technics lots of side quest and lots of surprises this game is so alive ❤️
Great open world game with an amazing setting. Some may compare to Assassin's Creed, which is true for maybe Origins/Odyssey but after 20+ hours play time I'd say it's closer to the newer Tomb Raiders with a huge Skyrim sense of exploration.

it's honestly a contender for game of the year (barring cyberpunk). this game is straight-up beautiful and the combat is challenging but not impossible to master,
They took a long time to release another ps4 titles but the wait was worth it. The story is amazing, the gameplay is fun and the graphics are beautiful.
Очень интересно сражаться с врагами. Много клеширрваного, но просто круто вписаного в атмосферу игры. Пока непрошол, но не увидел ни одного выделяющегося обсурдностью персонажа.

This os the Forest time i come to metacritic to rate a game on metacritic. This game has a lot of individual flaws like facial animations, cluncky combat and so on. If you take this individualy they would hurt the game... but when you analize teu gole game they are irrelevant. This game is a lovelatter to akira kurosawa fans, and f, km a certain way tô the western fans (if you know what i mean). The visuals are perfect, it has a compelling story and the most awesome game mode (akira kurosawa mode) wich is pretty awesome but wasted on a game with such good visuals. I never felt borred with this open world game. Game me the fellings when i first played tenchu for the first time on my ps1. There is no such thing as a perfect game and this ratting i'm giving is for the awesome game presented and the respect for the fans and source material. If you like the genre it's a must play game. All this years waiting arent wasted. Haven't finished the game ter... but it's because i don't want tô. This game recovered my faith on sony exclusives. It's a masterpiece and if you can afford don't wasted more time waiting!

Ghost of Tsushima has it all. Great story, satisfying gameplay, and a beautiful world. Although not the most impressive graphics from a technical standpoint, GoT is artistically the most beautiful game I've ever played. Even the music is a solid 10/10. Please do yourself a favor and play this gem. Sucker Punch knocked it out of the park with this one.
Literally everything I want out of an open world game. The immersion is next level in terms of exploration. The wind mechanic is genius and more games will definitely adopt similar design. The combat is fluid and intentional and I love improving to create cinematic fights. This is Sucker Punch’s evolution, for sure. Bravo.
I really enjoy Ghost of Tsushima i love the story, the exploration and all the content the game has to offer. Still havent finished it but spent more than 10 hours in the game and im still not even finished with it yet. This is how you create such an amazing world and great compelling characters
This game didn’t do anything revolutionary, but the things it does are flawless. Combat makes you truly feel like a one man wrecking crew without being way over the top and having you do crazy flips and unrealistic moves. The environments are gorgeous and the characters are very likeable. The loot system feels balanced and upgrading also feels balanced.
Lovely experience, I love the story (Well, I am a huge fan of the old Japan so maybe that also helped), the gameplay is fun and interesting, the graphics are sweet, I like the music and it is a beautiful depiction of Japan and they managed to nail that feel of the past!
Overall an incredible achievement for an open world game. Good story, great cast of side characters, very good combat mechanics, amazing progression system, deep cosmetic customization with micro transactions. The wanted to create a game honoring the samurai movies of old and they basically created a playable one. Perfect realization of an artistic vision. It is probably more a 9/10 than a 10/10, but unfortunately the people that can´t accept that this game is better than Tlou2 have started their review bombing. So I´ll add that point just to counter that.
200% worth every cent I spent on it, Game is beautiful! The places you play in are just stunning, combat feels very nice and the way you have to work to improve your skills like the bamboo cutting for example, it makes sense, you may fail at it a few times but when you get it itfeels like you have worked the strength to finally get it and feels like a reward, also the mini games of following x animal to a shrine is so nice! It's a great way to pay homage to that Asian belief while also improving your character. I can't love this game enough, if you are still thinking if buying or not, be sure that you won't regret it, this game is so well thought, you get your main character and progress with him but in the way you meet so many more strong supporting characters both male and female and they all make sense. If you told me I would have to pay again to replay it I wouldn't hesitate for a second, this game is a true masterpiece!
Love this game so far. The open world feels alive and the space doesn't feel wasted. I didn't like the fact that the HUD was missing at first but now that I am used to it, it feels like an improvement over most open world HUDs. The only negative is the camera sometimes goes at odd angles.
Ghost of Tsushima is a Masterpiece. This game really does an amazing job immersing you in its world. The side missions feel important and organic. The combat is fun and challenging. The world is full of things to discover , and most importantly, things to see! Ghost of Tsushima is the most visually stunning game I have ever played. I literally created an account on Metacritic today to sing its praises. This game is inspiring and beautiful. I honestly don't think I will ever finish The Last of Us Part 2 now. My immediate goal after beating this game will be a second playthrough with Japanese audio in Kurosawa Mode. ;)


I love the graphic, the atmosfer about feudal Japan, the culture, and story. Gameplay is good, and yeah, best for last PS4 games exclusive. Sorry for bad English


I’ve never played something like this on Play Station. An amazing proof that it is not wise to believe the critics some times. Game of the Year. Its a little bit like Zelda. 11 out of 10.

Ode to Samurai..... Pastiche, Homage, and a love letter to the classical Japanese Samurai film genre. So much fun and immersion. Amazing game. So satisfied unlike how TLOUP2 left me.

Deep and well-written history, wonderful places. impressive and native soundtrack, stunning photography, diverse combat instances and realistic attack techniques. I felt plunged in such a brilliant Japanese culture show. Masterpiece!




Weedssssjwjwjsjssjsjajajjjjjskskakakakakakajaajajajjkjnjaksksjsksksksksksksksksksmsmsmskskskkskskskksksskskksksksksksksksksjskskksnebdgeuwuajsjsnnsnsnznsjshsgdhshdjdnxndjdjdjdbdgsgbsbdnsjsksiqhwhwnsnsndjxnxndnd Best game
This game is absolutely amazing, the graphics, the music/sound, gameplay elevates the standard of gaming. I’ve noticed that some of towns are empty, but then you realize it part of the story line because mongol invaders took over that land and people were forced to leave the island. The ending also was odd inspiring, I never had a video game that could make a person depending on choice. If their is one piece of criticism I could it is that I wish there less fade to black and more transition animations. Over all I am still rating this game very high and I hope it is a contender for game of the year awards.

This is the most beautiful game I've ever played. You're constantly showered with breathtaking vistas that you're rarely graced with in other games. The soundtrack is as stunning as the visuals. There were numerous times where I felt shivers, just experiencing the awe inspiring match between the visuals and the music. The only thing I didn't realy like was the camera. The fact that you can't lock on can be really frustrating at times, but it's something you get used to. I whole heartedly recommend the game.
One of the Best combat systems in probably the most gorgeous and stunningly beautiful looking game of the Generation. The world feels alive and the quests actually feel impactful to the character and world and not just filler. An amazing game to end the PS4 ERA
This will be the last time I use this garbage site as it has become a living joke. Get rkt, fascists. Great game. Really fun and enjoyable. Cares about it's audience.
This is a great game a mix of beautiful graphics, great sound, voice acting and story. It is unbelievable this game can run on a PS4! The beautiful scenery makes travelling around the world enjoyable instead of a chore in many other games. Combat is amazing every kill feels satisfying from a visual and audio point of view, the combat is also versatile and allow the players to take enemies head on or stealth and it does not force you to do one or another. The voice acting is very good it brings the atmosphere of a samurai movie to the game and you can choose both English and Japanese voices. I cant praise this game enough and everyone should at least try it. Amazing My favourite game this year so far, well done Sucker Punch!
This was a HIGHLY anticipated title on my list and it actually surpassed expectation for me. Everything about this game screams style, grace and care. If you like exploring this is for you, If you enjoy action this is for you, if you enjoy gore this is for you lol. Voice acting is great atmosphere is second to none. When I play a game I would like the game to feel look and sound true to what they're attempting to portray. This game does this phenomenally!

I'm new to open world games but this is incredible, it's so beautiful, the story is captivating without being over complicated and I really understand why I'm doing each mission, everything is a means to an end. The photo mode is amazing and I've spent so much time just lining up shots and choosing colour folters for my screenshots. Its not so big that it feels unmanagablely large like I felt when starting The Witcher. The combat is fun and interesting and gets more complicated as you get further into the game. Overall its just amazing to play and great fun!

The best game of last few years.Made with great love to gamers.Dont believe to bad reviews....Its probably made with fake accounts of Neil F*rtbox...Just look what games were rated by those accounts and you will understand. 10 foxes out of 10

This is quite a well executed, beautiful and fun game. I liken it more to a cross between AC:Odyssey and Sleeping Dogs in terms of how it looks and plays. It's not perfect in some areas - the combat camera in close quarters or where theres a fence can break the ability to fight properly, and some of the targeting of animals like dogs and boars seems off. Outside that, the polish on narrative, the sword combat, and the majestic beauty of the world is outstanding. You feel a sense of connection with the protagonist as you shape yourself into a reborn mongol killing machine. This is a game that - if you like open world, action adventure or samurai themed games - should be on your purchase list.
Beautiful game, great combat mechanics and enjoyable to play. Well over 40 hours of game time. This game was released to help us forget about the disaster of the last of us 2. I will say that the collectors edition is not worth the price.

It's like red dead blended with Nioh minus the difficulty. The combat is addicting, the story is great, and the graphics and photography mode are amazing. Potential game of the year
Un placer a la vista, emocionantes combates, misiones secundarias entretenidas(solo hice 3 misiones principales desde que salio el juego). Los felicito.
This is one of the most beautiful games I have ever played. The setting is amazing, the story is great, but most importantly the gameplay is top notch. The fighting is not easy but it’s not frustrating like a souls type game. As you master the art of fighting, you feel like you are truly getting better but you still must be engaged with your moves and choices to come out on top. There is no grinding for levels or map based locations that require a certain level in order for you to explore. Your ability to survive a fight is based on how well you have learned the art of the Samurai or Ghost. This gives you a sense of freedom as you explore this beautiful world because if you find an interesting location, you don’t need to worry about what level your character is. What you need to worry about is how confident you are with your fighting skills. Simply amazing game.
Ghost of Tsushima offers some of the best looking environments and vistas in any game of the current generation. The combat is fluid and fast-paced, and due to some great skill progression, it will feel rewarding throughout the entire game. The stealth gameplay on the other hand, feels a little stale with really bad enemy AI. I'm personally also very done with hiding in tall grass as part of "stealth" gameplay. The main missions in the game are very well written, and the overall story is touching even if it's not revolutionary at all. The side missions however vary greatly in quality, with some of them sadly being downright boring and poorly written. Finally exploration has all of the tropes you know and love/hate from open world games, but packaged in a way that neatly fits the overall theme and setting of the game, making exploration feel rewarding instead of a checkpoint chore. Overall Ghost of Tsushima is a great game, full of fast-paced samurai action, set in a stunning world, that is a true joy to your eyes. It doesn't change up the open-world formula much, but instead delivers the known tropes in a focused package. If you enjoy open world games, you will love Ghost of Tsushima.

you can feel Kurosawa in this game. There is minor issues , but it won't hold me to give this game full score review. The landscapes are incredibly beautiful, great score and of course the game play is awesome. I love the styles of fight , developers did great job studding the way of samurai fights.

I made an account specifically to review this game. Ghost of Tsushima is the best game I have played since God of War, and before that, the Witcher 3. The world was amazing, and the gameplay was divine. Excellent game!

goodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgoodgood Amazing to see what Sucker Punch has achieved going from Infamous Series to Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks gorgeous.
A good game i pass this game 2 times in a week i really like it and i want the prequel whit a son or disciple i want morrrree and apart of that the game is a peace of ART i think this game deserves the game of the year award
No disfrutaba tanto un juego de cultura Japonesa desde que jugué Tenchu en psx, ame su modo cinematográfico y lo disfrutable y adictivo que son sus batallas
Disfruté mucho el juego y como fan de la cultura japonesa me alegró ver lo cercano que el juego te hace sentir a ella, casi como si estuvieses viviendo esps momentos historicos en los que se inspiraron.

Sucker Punch did an amazing job on the game, the graphics and gameplay are really good. The combat is really good and it is fun doing standoffs, one of the best games of 2020.
I've been playing since the release and cannot get enough of this game, first off, the graphics are fantastic, I love the environment, everything from subtle music while exploring to the sound of birds and it's just great, very immersive with surround sound, the story so far is just epic, it's like your playing in your own samurai movie, there is a lot you can custom, and leveling up your character is really fun, you can upgrade your weapons and fighting style Wich you can change on the fly, really cool, all in all this is a really good game with a few bugs but it's a new release that's expected, and it nothing game breaking. I look forward to seeing more.
Eu joguei por umas 10 horas seguidas e realmente o jogo está bom, história do game é realmente cativante com diálogos lindos sobre honra, respeito e coragem, um único ponto ruim do game que eu achei foi a cachoeira do game que realmente tem uma testura que peca bastante, porém de resto é tudo lindo e perfeito nota 10 garantido!!!
I absolutely love this game. It is now firmly cemented as my favourite open world game of all time, overtaking Skyrim. Yes there are some very minor issues just like Skyrim and every other open world game out there. But the whole package this game delivers is absolutely mind blowing. Combat, World, story telling....everything is all 10/10 for me. Im blown away at the graphics consistently, it almost feels like your playing a ps5 game at times. Game of the Generation for me and well worth the wait!
This is a great open world game when you can explore all Tsushima Island and find interesting stories all around. The immersion is great because is story, music, cinematic and characters. The weak point is the textures and some points the game does not explain you where is a determination point.
This game was truly amazing to play. I'm more than 85% of the way through, would be further but I'm taking my time. The controls are very easy to figure out, and the difficulty is nice too, challenging yet still reasonable. The story is great, and is what I'd expect from historical fiction. Only negative about the game is it can feel a bit grindy at times, however it definitely gives generous rewards for going the extra mile.
Really beautiful game in world design and also story! Would recommend! Just the Stealth part could be a bit more challenging but apart from that it’s pretty good!
No grafismo, uma mistura única do lúdico com o realista. Na gameplay, uma delícia de se jogar. Muito acima de tantos outros jogos badalados e até supervalorizados. Única crítica fica para alguns cuidados que não foram tomados em relação a física de objetos e nos confrontos poderia ter a opção de marcar o inimigo e a câmera ficar focada nisso.
Not a perfect 10 because no game is perfect. I love the story, and to follow up great assassin mechanics. Graphics look like im playing a movie. A must buy, unlike something else that came out in June. Not saying names lol.
Ghost of Tsushima really hit it with its beautiful scenery, combat system, story, music and world. Despite its downgrade from E3 trailer, it still deliver that visual i personally hyped. And i do apreciate the inclusion of kurosawa mode, make it worth second playtrough right away. The combat even tho it was fun, the stealth mechanic and dumb AI really make it not worth to be played as stealth game. Platforming feels clunky most of the time, movement looks stiff etc. Play it as true samurai in my first playtrough and it was super fun. Graphics, texture sometimes it looks a bit too flat for me, plenty of repetitive in foliage and scenery. But all world combined, you'll take tons of screenshots using well made photomode on every possible circumtances. Kinda disappointed the world itself lacks of npc for my taste. Sounds, superb music composition, superb ambient, superb sfx and voice acting. Especially appreciate the use of native mongolian language for the enemy unit. Sadly its faceial animation werent matched for native japanese language, which imo defeat the purpose of kurosawa mode. Story, well me personally kinda want it to be samurai clan vs samurai clan. But foreign invasion works too, even tho its kinda cliche at this moment. The character of jin it feels too one dimension at the start of the game, but his internal conflict about honor is what i'd consider unique in samurai setting where you should face your enemy face on. Graphics 7/10 Gameplay 8/10 Sounds 9/10 Story 7/10 7.75
Countless of hours spent doing side missions and watching nature; how can I not feel stuffed with peace. Story is unpar! At first it reminded me of Sekiro, then turned in to tenchu... If I can put this game next to a masterpiece like breathe of the wild; I 100% would. Only reason why is not perfect.. I don’t like there is no locking on a enemy. Other than that. The game is excellent! It’s a great contender for game of the year!
I gave it a 9 but its more like 9.5 .. The game feels like you've played it before but it also feels new id that makes and I personally loved every minute of it.. Only weird thing is walking up or downhill play the game you'll see what Imean
The besta samurai game i ever playmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmmnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnnn
Although its an assassin’s creed clone the game is much better than origins or odyssey. The game itself is an art, a painting. Not the best graphics but the most beautiful landscapes i have ever seen. facial animations, character movements arent as beautiful or realistic as the landscapes but its serviceable Combat is is somewhat difficult in the beginning but later it gets easier as u learn more skills, stance and acquire new tools. The story is okay so far. It was definitely inspired by old samurai movies.

I think the game is amazing. I'm giving it a 9 for the gameplay, the story is solid, and there is so much to explore in the world. All side quests are different and unique.

20 hrs in so far and this game is amazing. Have been waiting for a samurai/ninja game for years. SP studio has delivered what ubisoft never did with AC (ninjas and samurai in feudal japan)
The story wasn’t amazing but it was enjoyable and some parts were great. But other than that holy **** the game is great. The combat is amazing, the atmosphere is beautiful and the photo mode is the best I’ve seen. The game has it’s flaws but overall is a great experience and I highly recommend you get the game.

what a wonderful game! incredible ambience, fantastic soundtrack, memorable characters, reallybum fantastic game. I loved the gameplay and the photo mode.
Great gameplay! Amazing graphics and outstanding environment! The storyline is original and highly recommend anyone to give this game a try! You will NOT regret it
Basicially what I expected. Great gameplay, AMAZING atmosphere, music score out of this world. Kurosawa did so well. Couldn't be more proud. An actuall GOTY candidate.
Ghost of tsushima brings a sense of exploration that few games in this generation have done, simply riding with your horse without knowing what awaits you, is one of the best feelings that the game gives you, the combat is flawless, satisfying and immersive, the story , even if simple, does enough to arrest you, the game has a reasonable amount of bugs, and some parts of the game seem much uglier than others, thus bringing a certain inconsistency in the visual Textures 3/5 Lighting 4/5 Setting 5/5 visual itself 4/5 gameplay 4.7 / 5

Ótimo gameplay, combates desafiadores e intensos, com uma extensa variedade de golpes e táticas. Jogabilidade excepcional, belos gráficos e diversos extras, como um excepcional modo foto, uma temática diferente com missões variadas.
An awsome adventure.one of the greatest game of this generation.combat system are fluid and insane samurai stuff in this game makes it fun.the game has beautiful photo mode i have ever seen in any video game .
I wanna start off by saying great job sucker punch for another masterpiece of a game. I always wanted to experience the story of samurai and this game delivered way beyond my expectations. This will be my top 10 games of all time.
El inicio es normal, parece que será un juego del montón pero luego te deja anonadado con su espectacular mundo, los paisajes son geniales y tan hermosos que no lo puedes creer, luego el combate el cual es entretenido y muy astuto para engancharte, algún detalle como bugs pueden hacer que el juego se vea afectado pero por lo demás casi un 10.

Ghosts of Tsushima takes the open world formula and fuses it with Feudal Japan to create an experience that is familiar, and yet still evocative. The combat is tight, involving quick reflexes, and a defensive over offensive mentality. The presentation is top notch, offering various ways to play, as well as many audio and video options. Despite the aging hardware of the PS4 architecture, Ghosts is an absolutely gorgeous game visually, and the exploration and photo mode alone will keep you distracted for hours on end. While it may not bring an awful lot of new concepts to the genre, the execution is top notch, making Ghosts of Tsushima a great send off for the PS4, and a great new entry for Sucker Punch Studios.
Its really good and the visuals are amazing. I almost feel lost in the open world and when I set a waypoint to ride to a mission, I spend the next 40 minutes just riding around and exploring, completely forgetting about what I actually wanted to do from the beginning. I love that there is no minimap to follow your destination, you are supposed to look at the game, not a map. The minimal hud makes the game much more immersive. Combat, ohhh mama mia the combat. Its phenomenal. The way you can change stances, fight different types of enemies, satisfying animations makes it really good.

Graphics: 10 Gameplay: 10 Storytelling: 10 The world is dazzlingly beautiful! The ammount of content is stunning! This game is the AAA open world samurai game ive been waiting on since childhood! Thank you sucker punch!

Amazing scenery, awesome fun fluid combat, great plot, and lots of bonus objectives and collectibles. Customization gets a 10/10 as well as strength progression. Just an amazing game.
Amazing game, love the environments and setting. Characters are likeable and you feel invested in the story. Graphics are beautiful and the best yet to date on the PS4. A true masterpiece to end this console generation.
Ghost of Tsushima has amazing combat and a beautiful world. I have been having a blast playing it. Ghost doesn't have any big unique feature to make it stand out, but I don't think it needs one. It is a wonderful refinement of open-world mechanics combined with a stunning recreation of Tsushima Island, and an interesting enough story, that I can safely say Ghost of Tsushima is my favorite open-world game.
Великолепная игра:интереснейший открытый мир,сюжет,доп.квесты;замечательная боёвка и сеттинг)Одна из лучших игр с открытым миром и один из лучших эксклюзивов ps4) Графика:10 Геймплей:10 Сюжет:10

I love the it! It’s just beautiful, you could see some downgrades, but they are not as bad as people say it is. Smooth combat, and most dynamic environment I ever have seen in a game 10/10. (It has some bugs but I know the developers are on it)

Ghost of Tsushima was a amazing and Beautiful Even if you don’t like samurai the landscape and the story are amazing if you want to get ghost of Tsushima you should get it

I never review games - I came to review this one. Pros: - Open world isn't a bunch of filler junk, it all feels meaningful and progressive overall. I HATE open world games! It's always "Please go collect 10 bear pelts whlle my world is burning". I LOVE this open world, though. Everything is meaningful and built into the story. Every place has a story or pushes you to a side-quest that feels meaningful and intertwined. It's not just "go hunt some robots for the hunters lodge because this is easy filler to build" - It FEELS meaningful. It feels like a good balance. -Combat and leveling is done right - Not just becoming a meat shield or hitting harder... you actually gain new abilities, get stronger, learn new things, and then can take down enemies using those new things. I LOVE how this intertwines with the story - that he needs to learn ways outside the traditional samurai code to defeat the enemies that have studied their ways. -Combat is done right. It's a fine balance between assassins creed boringness and not so frustrating as dark souls where you just die sometimes because there was a monster around that corner. -Story is well voice acted, I love where it's going, and I love the world building -I LOVE the minimalist HUD. Thank you. Finally a game that immerses you. A good HUD is often overlooked! The way they integrate pathfinding into the wind is a great example of getting rid of waypoint silliness. -Music and sound is amazing. The intersection between music and gameplay here has given me goosebumps multiple times. The score is top notch, one of the best I've listened to in a long time. -This game is THOUGHTFUL. In the story, at one point, his uncle says his father's spirit is in the sword and the winds will guide him. The waypoint system is by flicking up the touch pad and the wind guides you to your next journey. In real life, this story isn't true and the mongols were wiped out by two hurricans - KamiKaze - God's wind. They are having trouble with the Mongols because they know how the Samurai operate - and leveling is based on him learning new skills outside the way of the samurai to defeat his enemies by finding new ways to defeat their enemies. You don't get stronger through stats and weapons necessarily, but a ton of new cool skills that help defeat these specific enemies as you grow and learn about them - you level up by killing AND spying, etc. That is some top notch game design, and I continue to find gems like this as I play. Cons -They made some odd choices for the sake of the open world. I'm glad it doesn't take 10 years to travel across like breathe of the wild, but it's also odd that a peaceful village is a 4 minute horse ride away from an enemy fort. That DOES fit with the story, but you have to suspend your disbelief a little here for the sake of avoiding a ton of boring travel -no matter the language the mouths don’t match the words. They should’ve stuck to Japanese mouth animations and let the others just deal with it. It seems like failing all animation options was a poor design choice. -poor choices on where to “store weapons”. Just sling it around my shoulder or something. Whipping a bow out of your butthole seems silly. Most complains or cons are pretty minor so I’m not going to knock it down for these items Graphics 10/10. Clearly one of the most visually stunning games we've ever seen. Gameplay 9/10 Wonderful designed weaved in with story, not stupid bullet sponges, and not a bunch of crappy filler. Music/Sound 10/10 - Amazing design and combinations Story/Style/Writing 9/10 - Solid story, great presentation, very well done stylistically and clearly designed to a very deep level Every 0/0 review I see is "game is good but I hate waiting 36 hours FU metacrticic" Or "Game is good but it's not RDR2". Are you kidding me userscores? Get rela.
Волшебная самурайская сказка, навеянная фильмами Куросавы. Завораживающие виды природы, наполненный открытый мир, без копипасты. Интересная и самобытная боёвка, адекватная сложность. Хорошо прописанные персонажи и истории, даже во второстепенных квестах. Продуманные удобные мелочи, мгновенные загрузки. Мир, из которого не хочется уходить. Мой личный кандидат на GoTY, мастхэв для всех любителей сеттинга и экшн игр. Разработчики приятно удивили.
I'm only about half way through but really enjoying it. It's kinda hard to get off the game to get get sleep. It's a beautiful game and a must play. They just need to add a new game plus. Worth a playthrough
25 hours in and this is my game of the year for sure. The story and characters are memorable, the exploration is by far the best of this generation (has an amazing wind feature that keeps the HUD minimal in a logical way), and the combat!!! Oh dear the combat. It keeps you coming back and continues to be interesting the further I get. I'm a huge Souls fan but don't worry this isn't like that! While the elements are similar such as parry timing, the stances and tools make it easy to pick up and easy to get relatively good at. A negative is the camera. Sometimes it won't track well and especially when transitioning into buildings/tents. I do think the game could have used a lock-on feature as well to help with combat camera in these situations. This is really what Assassin's Creed should aspire to be like.
Great game! I really love the excellent scenes. Before playing it, I expect it as a game like Assassin’s Creeds. Surprisingly, Ghost of Tsushima encourages you to explore, which makes it including plenty of factors of Breath of Wild. I would say the game is “50% AC + 40% Breath of Wild + 10% Tomb Raider/Uncharted”. It perfectly combined them. You can find the joy of all the games. It’s my favorite Sandbox AAA game.
The game is very wonderful and full of suspense, it is one of the most beautiful things played Thank you for this great work, I wish to darken it
This game is amazing:graphics, sound, gameplay, story, beautiful scenarios and good pacing, there is a couple of things that need work like the cámara but is worth it

One of the best game I ever played. I don't even know where to start, the world that sucker punch built is hands down beautiful, the combat system is implemented very well and I can definitely say that this is one of the best experience playstation gave us during this generation! Thank you sucker punch!
What a huge relief! Part of me was expecting this to not live up to my expectations, but damn it's so good! The island of Tsushima looks incredible and is such an amazing place just to wander around. I get a similar feeling playing this as i did with the equally amazing Horizon Zero Dawn. And i have the same problem with it too..i find it very difficult to stop playing and put the controller down! the story, the characters (for the most part) the music, the animals and the overall atmosphere of this game just draws you in. I kept finding myself saying "just a quick look around this area then i'll return to the temple" Combat wise i was very pleasantly surprised. The sword play is by no means easy and takes good timing particularly with stand offs and spear wielding enemies, and dodging . It feels quite similar to Jedi Fallen Order (at least to me, I'm not the best at combat) the main difference is that in Ghost of Tsushima you respawn where you die (reload on this is very quick too!) rather than ending up miles away at a save point. This means way less frustration for the not so good at combat gamer, as such i didn't mind dying and trying again to perfect an encounter. Also enemy A.I is really good and quite unforgiving, multiple enemies will rush you at once which means you really do need to be tactical. Full disclosure, I'm less than halfway through at this point and maybe i'll edit this review later (though i doubt it) All i can say is i haven't had this much fun in a game since Horizon a game i've now played through numerous times, and i can see myself spending a lot of time in Tsushima too. I also think it's no accident that this game came out after TLOU part 2. Sony knew some time ago that , that game would be problematic and incredibly divisive, and to be honest it's simply not a good game. So why would you want that to be your last PS4 exclusive. Ghost Of Tsushima is the send off the PS4 deserves, and what an incredible way to enter the next generation of Sony exclusives. Hats off to everyone involved.
Es una pasada! El mejor juego de 2020 con diferencia. Un apartado gráfico sin igual junto a su ambientación maravillosa, banda sonora magnífica, tiempos de carga casi inexistentes, jugabilidad con katana de escandalo, con muchas opciones de personalización de lucha y combos. Increíble, es de 10 este juego.
En un mot : chef-d'œuvre. C'est LE jeu Samurai que j'attendais. Cela dit, pour apprécier pleinement Ghost of Tsushima, il vous faut adapter (ou voir changer) votre façon de jouer, il faut vivre comme un samouraï. Il vous faut devenir Jin Sakai. Le monde est unique et beau, different de tous les autres mondes dans lequel je me suis plongé, les montagnes, les forêts, les rivières
Great combat mechanics, outstanding graphics and ambientation and excellent story, truly a game that deserves praise and doesn't need to buy it like tlou 2 because you can see the ammount of effort put in the story telling, graphics and playable elements wich makes it a awesome experience. The game is the perfect example of taking care of both graphics and story telling


Literally, most of the negative reviews on the user score are either trolls or xbox players.this game is a breath of fresh air and is great. Since this is an open world game, there isnt much room to be original, but GoT surprisingly does it's best to be grounded and natural in it's own way. The story is good and straightforward unlike the complexity of games like TLOU part 2. the gameplay forces you to actually learn different stances and how they are related to each enemy type, which is a breath of fresh air considering that many other open world games are just hack n slash. The graphics are agreeably downgraded but they are still better looking than any of the games I've played this past year. The only noticeable difference from the 2018 trailer is the ground texture, thats about it. This game is amazing and I've never played a Sucker Punch game before, so don"t let negative reviews affect your decision. story: 9 gameplay: 10 graphics: 11
1. Muy bueno el juego me encantan sus graficas, sus historias! Y digo historias, porque todas las primarias secundarias y terceras misiones tienen una historia que contar, haciendo que disfrute más del juego. 2 hay algo que talvez no se a comentado, es el de los viajes a otras zonas son muy rápidos de cargar. 3 el gameplay fue mi única pega ya que en espacios reducidos cuesta ver al enemigo, lo solucione poniendo la cámara con un movimiento más rápido y la verdad que mejoro muchísimo, para mi es el exclusivo de este año !!! Muy recomendado

Ghost of Tsushima is by far on of the most beautiful looking games that will perhaps ever be seen on this console generation. The story is making with truly heart warming and 3 dimensional characters. The world is vast and expansive seen through an array of blended colors, mixed with the finest of paint brushes, by the carefullest of artist.

Great story with likable characters. Side quests quality is on par with witcher 3. The combat is very engaging, you can't spam sword attacks need to be a bit more patient and methodical. Graphics are fantastic for an open world game. Only cons i would say is some animations are a bit janky and enemy ai acts a bit weird sometimes when in combat, but these are nitpicks and didn't effect my enjoyment of the game.
One of, if not the most visually stunning game I have ever played. The vivid colours, beautiful lighting and the amazing weather really makes the world spectacular to be in. The combat is also great. The fluidity and gore really elevates the experience and makes you feel like a samurai you're meant to feel like. The customisation is also very good with a great number of outfits and colour schemes. I had always hoped for a big open world samurai themed game, I've always thought it would have been assassins creed, but Ghost of Tsushima delivered perfectly.
Absolutely loving this game. I’m not the type of person who takes screenshots all that often in games but I’m taking them left right and centre with this game. Combat is superb; responsive and lethal. Story so far is excellent, with some really good story telling in the side quests.
One of the best games I have Ever played! One of the best looking games too! Love the Japan setting and art of this game! Visually its so stunning and beautiful that it makes me want to cry!

The environments, menus, and fluidity of the game are beautiful. The story is a wonderful exploration of family, honor, duty, and justice. Some of the gameplay had some issues with glitching, and camera angles. Overall, a really great game.

Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing game. The graphics are superb, thanks heavily to the art direction of this game. The gameplay is in a master class of its own. The Biggest surprise is how good the story is. Why the story is so good is the side content, characters, and how the story is structured. The side content adds really good world building and character development. Another thing that I loved about the Side missions is that they were always a different narrative, even if they follow a similar premise. What this game does so well is that it doesn’t force you to do the side content, but it makes you want to do it. That is the reason why the open world is on the level of red dead’s or Witcher 3. Exploring in this game is insanely fun, I don’t know how many times I just drifted off doing activities like chasing a fox or bird instead doing the main story. I also have to give props to the photo mode, which is the best one we have ever scene. Overall this game is amazing and everyone should play this great game.
This game is bloody amazing, I totally loved it. The graphics are amazing and the story is really good, I did have a little problem with the movement of the character while fighting but overall the game is amazing. This is a better Assassins game than the recent Assassins Creed game. Ghost of Tsushima is the best PS4 game of 2020. everyone needs to play this game.

Stunning game with a few minor flaws (field of view, manual camera moving, 30fps, movement especially climbing animations) . But overall definetly one of the best games of this console generation!
This game is amazing!!! love the setting and the world, but the star of the show is the fighting mechanics its sooo good!! This game will win any awards this year.

Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing Amazing
What a way to end the ps4 exclusivity, almost like a years party in gaming, anyways Ghost of Tsushima is a visually stunning game, even the music is the best I've heard since persona 5, the combat feels great and the game is very fun. The gameplay does feel familiar like shadow of Mordor and assassins creed had a Samurai baby, this would be it. A must play for any ps4 gamer.
First of let me say this game is awesome the Graphics are the best I've ever seen im playing on a regular PS4 with HDR it truly feels like a ps5 game the controls are really good story is amazing this is a must buy. a side note a lot of reviews on here talking negative about the game make no sense I think this could be some backlash from Last of Us 2 people are butt hurt because they know this game is way better
Очень красивая и хорошо поданная история, интересная и зрелищная боевая система, хоть местами и кривоватая, потрясающий открытый мир который постоянно даёт тебе что-то исследовать и что-то выполнить, вы будете уничтожать монголов каждые 2 минуты гарантированно, средняя графика, но сами локации и арт дизайн на высшем уровне, отличная работа Sucker Punch 9/10
Simply amazing...keeps getting better im only 4 hours in. Combat is fun to master, stealth is how you would expect. The setting is outstanding and atmosphere is something you'll have to play to experience...recommend this game 100%
Ghost of tsushima is a really fun and enjoyable game. At first I was not really planning on buying the game because I wasn't sure how much I would like it. It turns out the $60 I spent were well spent. The gameplay just feels very smooth and new. The graphics are very beautiful and very appealing. The customization is also very well done. The story so far is very interesting and catches your attention a lot! I think this game is worth it!
It's not a perfect game but it is enjoyable. Graphics are insane for a 2013 console. The IA it's a little dumb but is acceptable. The history is good, not perfect. It's okey.



The Combat is awsome and I love the story. The graphics are not the most realistic but they are the most beautiful. The world is stunning and the side quests are really good.
Top history, top fight. To graphics... It apears that they didn't take much care in the graphics of npcs and during the dialogs ... and there is some problams in the camera during the fight. It is a must play game !!
Não é revolucionário mas faz muito bem o que se propõem. Principalmente no combate e nos gráficos, que são belíssimos, apenas com ressalvas para algumas partes do jogo que as texturas simplesmente destoam do resto.



Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best games of the year. A game so very well paced and polished narratively, it's hard to not like it. The characters were fantastic, Jin Sakai, albeit slightly static and dense, is still an amazing individual. After losing everything, I have no idea why people expect him to be a individual with a lot of emotions. The side characters, so I wont go into much detail about, were given sufficient screen time and were all properly thought out. The world of Tsushima, empty, but beautiful. The moving foliage with fireflies and leaves fluttering around. The physics and variety in visuals is honestly the best I've ever seen in any game. Such artistic brilliance to its visuals creates a painting esque game which doesnt aim to be a shallow photorealistic journey. But it's not without its flaws, **** camera and god awful collisions. Especially while doing parkour, how Jin sometimes almost defies gravity as a bear sends him flying 6 ft above the ground. Still, these flaws can be easily ignored once you get immersed in the world. Camera will always bug you, and honestly, that's my only main gripe. Overall, voice acting, characters, narrative. 10/10. Even if the story might be cliche and predictable, it's still a game which has the soul of Japanese cinema. To give an authentic experience, not a unique one.
Do you miss the old Assassins Creed if so this game is just for you. You can develop your own play style with the ghost armor for sneaky play styles the samurai armor if you play aggressive and the traveler armor for explorers. The game is simple and doesn’t overload you with mechanics and I’m going to go far enough to say that this game will win GOTY. The graphics are also astonishing.
Wow, I was not expecting this out of ghost of tsushima , the game is stunningly beautiful, combat is fluid and realistic , the world is immersive, progression is balanced in a nice way not grind or anything like that, sucker Punch I really stepped up. And prove them self as a bona fide a list game studio
I was initially worried and had concerns about moment to moment game-play and the overall look of Tsushima island, the game's last known showcase crushed some hype i had building for its release and i was close to cancelling my collectors pre order, but within the first hour of playing all of my concerns had completely vanished and i am so happy i proceeded with the collectors, this game is exceeding all my expectations and i am astonished at how good it actually is, with nothing cluttering the HUD and only the wind to direct you this is the most immersive game i have played since.. i cant remember, this could actually be the most immersive game i have played, good riddance to mini-maps, thank-you so much SP, this is awesome, i dont want this experience to end and i hope there will be a sequel or at least DLC :)
The game is insane. The gameplay was on an another level. Finished the game, I played the game the whole day and it didn’t get boring once. If u are thinking of buying, i’m saying 100% buy the game.
I just wanna start this review off by saying the first hour of gameplay doesn't even scratch the surface of what's in store for the game. You can find more and more ways to entertain yourself whether you're going for an honourable samurai or a dishonourable ghost or a little in-between you'll find yourself having fun the graphics are vibrant and the photomode is really something special


Why people talks about Last of Us 2 here? Haven't finished the game yet 100% yet, but the open world is and the combat are really well done. Breathtaking in many moments during my playthrough. Really one of the best surprises in the year for me.
What sucker punch accomplishes with ghost is far beyond the expectations I originally had for the game. Oh how I was wrong, this beautifully crafted authentic samurai handles immersion perfectly, with choices of plenty of interesting side content that kept me engaged and added to the pacing of the games main story which helped keep the whole experience interesting and exciting. Some of the positives the main being combat. I have no issues saying this is the best third person combat since God of war. Its snappy with beautiful animation and excellent hit detection. The combat takes a while to master an only gets better with the extensive skill tree. Having different attack stances and stealth specific skills really allows to tackle objectives like the samurai or ghost ar a mixture of both. The graphics pretty good not on the level of rdr2 but the lighting and sheer style oozes from ghost. The sum shafts flowing flowers and grass and blossom really makes you feel part of this amazing samurai epic. My only grip would be the story was good but at times felt a little flat the dialogue for characters just didn't feel genuine or memorable. For example when I think of witcher 3 I remember characters like bloody barron djistra Roche yen and ciri all memorable believable characters. Overall this is by far the best game I've played all year and a is a game of the Yr contender for me. I can't recommend the game more it's a must play (in Japanese with subtitles is best). On a side note anyone that says this is just another boring open world game is just wrong. It borrows alot from other games yes but expands on these elements and also introduces some of its own. If you've ever fantasiesed about wandering the open fields as a samurai facing opponents for the people and in the name of honour then buy this game go buy it now.
Really good game. Graphic are amazing, gameplay is really good. The only small issue I have is the difficulty difference between the mission and open world is steep. Mission are ok, ecen when there is a lot of enemies they alternate so you have a chance. When you ride in the open world, you always stumble upon scout and they can be really hard to kill when you don't have a lot of Fighting experience. Else best game3 I played in a long time.
What a game. The natural beauty of the island will absorb you and never let you put your controller down. The camera can be a bit tricky to manage during close environment combats, but other than that, it’s one of the best open world game I ever played. The side quests are way better than any assassins creed. Highly recommend the game if you have a ps4.
The story is great. Who doesnot want to be samurai on an open beautiful japanese geography realised in game. Would have given 10 but my heaitation comes from 2 things: bad lip syncing on japanese audio and terrible foot animation. You can check Jins foot off ladder, steps and submerged when standing on strong ground. This makes me feel a bit disconnect from being grounded to reality.




Finally Sony's games are back to their core, being awesome! After the mess that was TLOU2, it really feels nice to experience another great game from Sony. Suckerpunch nails it here. This game offers one of the most beautiful and refreshing open worlds that I have seen. You'll find yourself stopping every minute just to take a picture using the fantastic photo mode. It's just... breathtaking. It's really immersive. The gameplay is fluid, the exploration is one of the strongest (if not the strongest) points in this game, the combat is fluid and gets better as you progress through the game. I would say it's like Assassin's Creed, Horizon's Zero Dawn with a little bit of The Witcher 3. Although it's not Dark Souls, but just to let you know, it's not a negative. I would say the negatives appear sometimes during stealth and combat. Sometimes the camera acts weirdly on tight areas. Overall, this is great game. Solid 8/9 - 10 game. GO GET IT!
The game is so beautiful makes wanna just stop and enjoy the immersive environment and the world is rich with so many great things to do .. an overwhelming story with a super fun combat system that makes feel like a samurai
The beauty that this game generates is indescribable. You just have to play it for yourself to acknowledge the wonderful and hard work devs put in this game. It may not have the best cutscenes and facial expression, but you will thoroughly enjoy the world of Tshushima! Absolutely adore this game.
overall the game is amazing, the world is visually beautiful,the game play immersive, the story is interesting and filled with twists and turns, and there is enough content in the video game where you could binge play it for days and still not be done with the with it. I would give it a 10 but I think the some things could use a slight improvement. EX: the controls are overly complicated and though they try to simplify it, its hard to memorize all of the commands meaning your bound to make an error in a fight. I also feel like the auto save feature needs more work; there are times where you'll auto save every few minutes and then there are times where it'll be like 20 minutes since your last auto-save meaning you'll have to manually save as much as possible. Another issue is the sneaking aspect, the enemies can see you from a mile away and it does get sort of agitating when you're doing sneaking missions. another thing that the game does is that it tries and fails to be infamous, the choice mechanic does not really factor into how people perceive you in the game, as a matter of fact, there are points where doing something that a samurai would deem dishonorable is mandatory so it skews the line between what is morally right and wrong.
Ghost of Tsushima accomplished what they set out to do, in creating a aesthetically gorgeous game and really capturing an essence of what it could of felt like to be a samurai, to a degree. I truly love the game and is in my top 10, but it's the stubborn history buff in me that is holding me back from giving it a perfect score.( atleast have jin use a tachi instead of a katana lol).
Beautiful world, engaging combat and captivating story. The game is really good and hits the right spots for someone like me who really loves Samurai and all things Japan, the nod to Samurai Cinema can be seen throughout the game with it's story telling and the 1v1 combat the player gets to take part multiple times.
All around a solid and well created game. My biggest complaint is the combat, it doesn’t feel as epic as some other games in the genre, still satisfying, just not the best. Otherwise, the game has a solid story, solid progression, beautiful environment etc. definitely worth buying.
My score graphics 10/10 you need to play this game on PS4 pro and 4k TV sounds 10/10 World design 9/10 gameplay 10/10 Who need lock on enemy 9/10 story 9/10
This game is game of the year nothing comes close. Absolutely beautiful graphics, gameplay and story. This is samurai story everyone needs to experience. This brought me pure gamer joy

After playing for a week, I can say that Ghost of Tsushima has the most enjoyable open world gameplay I‘ve ever experienced. There are multiple brilliant design choices (guiding wind, no unnecessary animations or things that would reduce the game flow) and the whole game is designed to fit the theme of being a samurai. I‘ve never been frustrated while playing GoT (looking at you, RDR2, with your cool animations that get boring when they sum up to be hours of the actual gameplay and all the annoying stuff relating to riding a horse – by the way RDR2 is still one of the greatest games of this gen, nonetheless). Usually this game would be a 9/10 but it deserves 10/10 points for multiple reasons: – Having the most beautiful open world I‘ve ever seen – the best and most satisfying sword combat system in all the games I‘ve ever played – brilliant design choices that contribute to a fantastic experience – best photo mode & quickest quick travel ever And what surprised me the most: – The best quest and exploration system of all open world games, build around a decent story. It's literally the first time I've focused more on side quests than on main quests. In other games, doing side missions or exploring the world before completing the campaign disrupts the narrative experience. In Ghost of Tsushima, all quests are very harmonic. And the Mythic Tales are my favorite side quests of all time. If you want you can do some nitpicking, so here are the minor aspects with potential for improvement: – cutscene transition – enemy AI – lip sync (only relevant for english language) – storytelling could be more emotional (probably the biggest potential for improvement) – camera handling (lack of lock-on is not the issue, I'd say it's better this way, but sometimes you just see a wall instead of your fight and the sensitivity should be higher) Purchase recommended? Whoever is interested in or likes the setting or samurai in general, will love this sublime open world game! Thank you, Sucker Punch!
Gerçekten çok güzel bir oyun. Hasret kaldığım samuray temasını gerçekçi ve güzel bir açık dünyayla karşıma çıkardığı için Sucker Punch'a teşekkür ediyorum. This game is so good. I would like to thank Sucker Punch for bringing me the samurai theme I waited for a long time with a realistic and beautiful open world.


The last few weeks were really tough for me and when tlou2 dropped and I didn't like it my year just seemed to be getting worser and worser, but then this game dropped. I refunded my lou2 and bought this. Within the first 10 minutes I was completely hooked and couldn't put my controller down. The graphics were absolutely phenomenal and the game play was smoother than any other game I've played. So I just thought I'd take this time to say thanks sucker punch, you saved my year

Simply put; this is the best looking open world game to date, with enthralling environments, beautiful vistas, superb quest design, immersive combat system that never gets old and perfect music to root you in the world of Tsushima like no game has ever did before. The Last of Us 2 graphics on an open world scale (!) People at Sucker Punch are real life wizards because this is magical in all regards.
One of the best graphics that I have ever played. It actually is the only game that I often use the photo mode just to admire the view. The gameplay is quite challenging, although not the hardest one. The standoff is a pretty fun mechanic, I enjoy it much! The main story and side story are great and integrated well. The mission is fun if we decided to be stealth as much as possible. Lastly, the nature element is a nice addition, hope we can see more in other games. Overall, this is a game that I always want to play, and it achieves better than I expected ! 10/10

I’m 5 hours in the game and the graphics are breathtaking. I haven’t encountered a single bug. Story is not that interesting but hey it is a samurai game. Great side quests and many thing to discover.

Finally a game with no agenda in 2020 Man the game is awesome with stunning sceneries and gameplay ,more importantly great story of Samurai turning into ghost This game even made me curious about history of Japan and guys I just found out that mongols invaded Japan twice , may be we can get part 2
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the most visually striking, fun to play games I have personally ever played. This incredible samurai epic which draws parallels from such films as Seven Samurai and Yojimbo, transports you to an era where steel, and patience are the key to victory against the Mongol Hordes. I found myself stopping and staring at the beautiful vistas presented to me too many times to count in the first few hours alone, only to run a few hundred yards to initiate a standoff against a wandering patrol of Mongols in which I cut them down like I was hitokiri battousai. While the game itself is both visually and mostly fun at times, there are minor issues I ran into with the camera at times when fighting in densely populated areas with buildings. The camera does not make objects transparent so if you are fighting and there happens to be a pillar, tree or wall, it will obscure your vision. This can be fixed with simple camera adjustments, but when you're in the heat of the combat, trying to strike down 5-6 foes some of which are of screen it can be rather frustrating. While this is an issue, it rarely happened to me in game, although it was annoying when it did. The compelling characters, and side quests in conjunction with the free flowing combat system, make this game a joy to play, despite these very few insignificant hiccups. Bottom line is if you are a fan of Samurai epics, incredibly easy to pick up gameplay, open world games where the beauty of the world around you will literally make you stop and appreciate it this is the game for you. Although I had slight problems with the camera work at rare intervals, the package is the closest thing I have seen to a complete, bug free, and incredibly enjoyable experience in ages. I will admit that I have a bias toward Samurai games that are done well, so although this would traditionally be a nine out of ten for me due to the rare instance of annoying camera work, the overall setting, dedication to detail and gameplay hit detection that is almost perfect edges this into the ten out of ten category. Even people that don't enjoy Samurai tales will find something to enjoy here, and to me this is a strong contender for game of the year.
Ну, чтож, я так понял, что последующая неделя моей жизни, пройдет в этой замечательной игре.
Sometimes playing video games is a chore. You move from one point to the next with a inevitable open-world tedium. Every story is the same, every character is the same. Ghost of Tsushima is the polar opposite of this; it reminds you why games are fun. There is life in every frame. Every heartbeat of the brutal, intensely satisfying combat; every drop of rain and every leaf journeying the wind; the slow, melodious hum of the world flows through the player to the sound of an enchanted medieval Japanese flute. This is why we play games. Ghost of Tushima never condescends the player; it's a game made by gamers who feel tired of being strung along. The emphasis is adventure, and the fulfilling feeling of growth and mastery of the world and your skills. BUY IT.
I started playing and within an hour playing i knew, it;s ok to pay full price for this game. They deserve it. I was really enjoying the game. Been a long time that i enjoyed a game. First of the graphics look so good, the use of colors is phantastic. No radar or map? It's the wind. Cool use of the envirement. The story is engaging, really draws you in. Some other developers can learn something from Sucker Punch. Use of sound is very good. And what i also like, its reasonably simple game mechanics. Nothing to difficult. Trying to think of a negative..........nope i am just to happy with this result. This is a must buy.
Visualmente exquisito, bso de 10, gameplay fluido y gustoso en combate peeeero la cámara a veces falla y falla mucho, hasta tal punto da que puedes morir por no tener un buen ángulo de visión. Gran trabajo sin duda, un juego muy muy disfrutable.


Easily one of the best games of 2020. I am just amazed at how the game manages to combine such beautiful graphics without sacrificing game play. The game play reminds me of a better version of assassins creed. The storywise I'm still yet to explore completely. But I'm already completely hooked to it
I love this game not only because graphic or gameplay. The way they tell me the story inspired me like an. Elderly person tells story to their grand children .
THIS GAME IS INSANE BEST GAME OF THE YEAR I MIGHT EVEN BECOME A SAMURAI 10/10 graphics 10/10 GAMEPLAY STORY SO FAR IS SICK 100% RECOMMEND PEOPLE TO GET THIS.
A very good game. The towers are a little annoying in the gameplay, but the fights are pleasant. Beautiful pictures and catchy style. And history tells about something that is unknown to modern journalists. About the honor.
Outstanding. This is how you make a game. What a way to send the PS4 off. To everyone who made this game Thank you. This is what I’ve been waiting for and I didn’t even know it.
На мой взгляд одна из лучших игр этого поколения. Редкий но отличный сетинг, потрясающий визуал, мир который хочется исследовать и крутая боевая система (всё как в фильмах про самураев и ниндзя, один точный взмах катаны и победа + стелс, если вам нравятся скрытые убийства).

I haven't made it past the first act. Reason being the world is too amazing to rush the story. The game looks, feel and sounds too good to miss the rest of the content. To me, the side quests and exploration only builds the impact of the war on the world. While the side quest builds character developement the exploration builds your gameplay skills. Cleverly designed game and it makes me excited for what ps5 exclusives will bring. This game was a nice closing for ps4 exclusives. I ran out.......



Ну вот, нормальная игра с простым сюжетом и хорошим главным героем, который не бесит одним своим видом, как оказывается мало надо чтобы все получилось, правда Сони?

Best Game of the Year 10/10 Thanks Sucker Punch for this game, i've been waiting all my life for this game. its the most beautiful game i've ever seen, everything i wanted from a game, its here in this one, clean screen without life bars and things like that, no lock on target for the fights making every fight a true challenge, no arrow pointing to our destination instead you just follow the wind, amazing variety of combat with 4 combat stances and alot of techniques and weapons to use, incredible secondary missions, loved the haiku's and legends missions, alot of variety in armour and swords, amazing views, best sunsets and moonlight in every game ever. the story is incredible and the exploration is realistic and unique. the photo mode is the best i've ever seen, allowing you to change time, create animated videos or amazing photos. its everything i wanted! Easy my GOTY
amazing game, amazing combat, decent story, amazing open world th soundtrack is just so fitting whit the setting of the game everything is just spot on.

if you love the game and want study about Japanese history and culture, this game is a good start! no need to say anything more... just 3 words I LOVE THIS
The ghost is the best game ever ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................ ............... .................. .. ................................


With stunning visuals, great combat and a story/side missions worth playing for I have to give this title a 10/10. Absolute masterpiece by Sucker Punch with only minor flaws. Absolute banger to end the generation with and I can't wait to see what's next from them on PS5.

Ghost of Tsushima is a captivating and charming yet really familiar take on a genre weve come to expect very little out of. Sucker Punch managed to make something out of a game not many people were looking foward to. Its a game that holds your hand very little, makingv the island the main charachter of the story. Seeing all the things Im still missing give s me many reasons to come back to this game every day. Theres sroom for improvement with the characterization kf our protagonist, Jin Sakai and th camera work could use some tune ups but overall I fell in love with a game I had very little hope for.
One of the best games in the PlayStation 4 library. This game wasn’t in my radar until I saw game play at the state of play a few months back and it really got my interest. The music and visuals make it a stunning game and the gameplay is amazing. There’s so many was to play. Go in like a samurai and attack head on or play it safe hiding in the shadows like a ninja. This game has brought back my respect to PlayStation, after the last of us 2 I was really disappointed on the way they handled the franchise but this game Blew my expectations. The creators and developers behind this game created something amazing and they got my praise. This is truly the game of year.
Half way into the second act and this game might be the best exclusive Playstation has ever put out. The look and feel of the game is perfect and the story is fantastic. Just glad they do not have any Naughty Dog or Neil Drunkman content in the game.
Beautiful game and better than TLOU 2 a laaaaaaate,i hope every one play this game before he rate it
Это как ассасин здорового человека с довольно интересной боёвкой и классической атмосферой средневековой Японии из фильмов Курасавы. Сюжет, персонажи, мелкие детали и то как это всё реализовано погружает тебя в этот мир и наполняет духом самурая (иначе не сказать). Очень крутая игра!

Es un juegazo, muy buena ambientación e historia. Es visualmente muy bonito. Espero que lo disfrutéis. Para vosotros jugadores

Best ps4 game ever. Story telling and gameplay are amazingly great. Sucker punch must be the face of PS4 and PS5. I lost my hope about ps4 a month ago. Now I can hope about ps5. Keep up good work Sucker punch!
This game is out of this World. Looks really amazing. The story is fantastic. Music is so so good. This game makes you feel so immersive and good and enjoyable like a real game supposed. First time I played it 4.5 hours without stop. And I can't get enough. Highly recommend it. Thank you for creating a real game without any bull........

This is an amazing game, with beautiful open world, awesome combat, remember able side quest, and bad ass Duel, some how make me feel like i am now living in japan in samurai time
القصة10 تنوع الاعداء 10 الاستكشاف 10 جمال العالم 100 قتال الساموراي 10 قتال الشبح 9 الموسيقئ 10
For me it is like a game of the year, so long waited, so rewarding. The gameplay is very smoth and clear. Visual representation is beyond expectations. It is compared to Witcher or Odissey, but I'd say it's rather more like Gothic 1-2. Nice, captive story, no need of grind to progress on main arc. Side stories are even more exciting. You would expect more o less flat characters ia a samurai movie inspired game, but no, they are very interesting. A must!


One of THE BEST RUNNING games I’ve ever played. I’m on a launch model PS4 and load times are still crazy fast. For example I used fast travel for the first time, was reading the tip on the loading screen, got about half way through reading and I was already at my location. This game certainly raises the bar in every aspect, especially optimization. If sucker punch could get an open world rpg game to run this smooth there is no reason other companies can’t optimize their games enough for a smooth experience. I would give it a 10 but there are little minor things, not perfect but still a masterpiece of this year.
Game of 2020 for sure and a worthy game to say goodbye to PS4.. only 5 hours or so into this but absolutely loving the graphics, game play is amazing as is the story.

Ótimo jogo, jogabilidade linda apesar de alguns problemas de resposta dos comandos durante Boss battles que são muito limitadas, fora isso o jogo é maravilhoso.


I had so much fun playing this game! All the awesome maneuvers to take down NPC's were game changing! Bravo to all the talented developers. This is game I will play again & again. The graphics WOW THE GRAPHICS!!! Definitely worth the wait.
An excellent game, everything with her, the plot, the picture is playable (replayability) about the sound is a separate song, only the facial expressions did not work out a little.
Graphic - 10/10 Game play - 10/10 Story - 10/10 Then why did I gave it 9/10 instead of 10/10? The only issue is the stealth game play. I don't think they haven't quite figure it out within the scope but the sword fighting part is sooooo entertaining and I'd give it 20 out of 10 if possible. Oh did I mention how silky smooth the frame rate is? YOU MUST GET THIS GAME!!!
This game is awesome it should be played by everyone! Stunning visuals. There are some complaints lip sync is not great, faces kinda seem like a mass effect Andromeda situation, some random bugs where the enemies get stuck in falling animations. The story is just not up to par for a playstation exclusive. The actors can be very bland especially Jin his Japanese voice actor is much better but the lipsync is way off. It's zgreat for a new ip! Hopefully they make a second one!
Beautiful beyond belief. Open world feels alive and vibrant. Just being curious and exploring stuff on ur way to a destination is super. The combat really opens up as you go and you can decide on your playstyles path early on.

Amazing game, really interesting story. The gameplay and graphic are solid. And combat really stands out the game does an amazing job making you feel like a samurai from the start. In the beginning of the game assassination is a but clunky but as the game progresses the mechanics get a lot more flushed out and stealth becomes a joy as well.

This game is Outstanding. Incredible graphics, amazing soundtrack, astonishing gameplay, great stoy....This game has the whole package!! Sucker Punch has evolved a lot since the PS2 days; when Sly Cooper arrived. Best exploration and open world I have played. The combat is deep and very rewarding Easily my favourite 2020 game so far; and on my top 5 of best PS4 exclusives.

Is it as perfect as Red Dead Redemption 2? Not really. To me it's a 96/100 which still is a 10/10. I really doubt it'll be GotY once Cyberpunk dropped though. Still an awesome game that I'll donate another 100hours of my lifetime to.

Best Open Games of this year no doubt about that , Refreshing gameplay , beautiful graphics challenging RDR 2 One , Great map 10/10 Thanks Sucker Punch
This game as become my favorite game besides God of War and Red Dead Redemption and I hope it continues with sequels. From the combat, the beautiful world, the story, the sidequests and the challenges all together make this game great in my eyes. SuckerPunch did an amazing job and deserve to be recognized as o e of the great studios out there :)


For me this game is absolutely beautiful. The way Sucker Punch has brought the game to life is just breathtaking. In my opinion this game is what Assassin's Creed should strive to be. On the day it was released I accidentally played for over 24 hours straight it is so easy to just get pulled in and lost from just exploring the world around you to liberating your fellow countrymen the real world just seemed to melt away. Now upgrading equipment takes a lot of resources so that means farming resources but unlike that of Assassin's Creed which made grinding very dull this game makes enjoyable it does not feel like a grind since there are so many places to visit and see and alot of bases to clear there is also a certain weapon charm that practically doubles most resources collected which helps alot. In all of my total time spent playing the game which as of right now is about 30+ hours I haven't even made it to act 2 yet but I haven't been doing all main missions I don't fast travel or focus on specific things I just have fun playing the game. I haven't been pulled into a game like this in years I don't get bored I look forward to getting on and playing it has so much to offer and the difficulty is brilliant and balanced. I highly recommend this game to everyone and I stress do not rush through it take your time with the game and just take in the development of your characters emotional choices and how his choices really conflict him explore the world around you and have fun.

Everything about this game is fantastic, graphics and gameplay are amazing and it offers a lot. There are some minor problems but I guess they will be fixed soon.

All I gotta say is The game is simple yet satisfying since I picked it up i couldnt put it down it has its FLAWS but its still great game.. TLOU 2 **** boys get out your feelings
Bottom line: support SP and play this game. It is visible that this game is a "love child" , the attention to details, the world and the samurai ambience created is top notch. Character development and combat is nice too. Below this nice surface the game suffers from the usual open world stuff (aka boring, repetitive random events, point clearings and shallow , short quests) . The AI is pretty unintelligent sometimes, story is kinda flat and the writing, voice acting in general is maximum serviceable. Still best open world game after the Witcher 3, it's worth your money and time if you like this genre of games.
Third-rate assassin-like game. It's exactly like Assassin’s Creed Odyssey and Assassin’s Creed Origins: there are: question marks, resource grinding, outposts liberating, parkour, assassination, stealth, outfit customization, weapon enchantment and etc. But quality is very, very average. It's more like Indie than AAA. Each element is derivative. There are a lot of clichés, the plot itself is completely trivial, characters too. Sometimes this plot and characters are ridiculous, like something from B movies. It's not a bad game, but it's too expensive, considering this level of quality.
A solid game, made with care and with a perfect balance in gameplay, content and story. Not too much, not too few. Compared to the late Assassin’s Creeds, who are literally bloated with content to a point it’s just overwhelming, Ghost of Tsushima is well balanced and a breeze to play. The sword fights are precise and thus demanding, but always satisfying. Only the stealth mechanics are a little too simple. But if you’re a true samurai, you’ll always face your opponent head on. A great game to finish the reign of the PS4.
I really like this game, but it does fall prey to your typical open world mechanics and side quests which get boring and tedious. The combat feels great, the depth of combat options is fun to play with, the graphics are impressive for an open world game but certainly not to the detail of a Red Dead Redemption. I find the game similar to Days Gone but less linear in it's story, it's enjoyable, you feel you want to explore the world but there are many added hours to the game that are tacked on like "I've lost my brother, please help me find him" etc. The gameplay to cut scene moments really don't blend in well at all, you'll have a cut scene moment followed by 3 seconds of gameplay followed by another cut scene, which completely takes you out of the moment. Overall a good solid game, but much to improve upon.

The game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. I could go more into detail but I dont think I need to. You got to play this game.
Ghost of Tsushima is, for the most part, a typical open world game. It adds nothing new to the mix, but instead chooses to offer the trite selection of activities and gameplay that players have seen a million times before. Now, I wouldn't mind these so much if the plot was engaging, but characters are mostly one-dimensional and the script is often lazy. Facial expressions during exchanges with NPCs can fall inside the uncanny valley sometimes, so cameras are placed far from the speakers to make up for this. To make matters worse, lip sync is completely broken for Japanese audio: it often looks like characters are being dubbed over. This completely destroys immersion and has a negative impact on the whole experience. I'm only saying this because visual representation for landscapes and buildings is often breathtaking, and it's such a shame that the same care didn't go to these other aspects. of the game. Gameplay wise, AI is pretty terrible, and even on maximum difficulty I run into hardly any trouble. There's also your standard array of mechanics: stealth kills, parries, unblockable moves, arrows, and such. This work fine, but they never reach the heights of games like Sekiro, where mastering them became essential for success. So as it stands, Ghost of Tsushima is a by the book open world game, with forgettable characters and forgettable mechanics. Enjoyable, yes, but its formula grows really tiring really quickly. There's also the added value of a magnificent photo mode and the splendid Kurosawa filter, but that's about it.
Such an amazing open world experience! The vast island of Tsushima is so well explored in this game. Art direction is superb with great use of colors and contrast. The combat has a weight to it and despite getting old a bit late in the game, it’s still a satisfying experience. Story wise, it isn’t the best, some characters aren’t very well developed as well as Jin, the main character, sometimes is dull interacting with side npcs and their problems, but still a good tale to watch. Graphics and performance aren’t so good, specially if you’re playing on base ps4 like I did but it’s decent. Overall a great experience, definitely one of the best PlayStation exclusives out there.
Put in at least 10-15 hours. Very pretty to look at. Combat is fun. Open world, if that’s your thing. Kind of feels like an Assassin’s Creed game at times. It’s fine.
So many things work well on GoT that's it's very easy to look past a few of its flaws. What a beautifully engaging game, visually spectacular and the gameplay is varied and tons of fun. What's not to like?
It's an awesome game to get after the disastrous tlou2 . This game is makes you feel badass and satisfied . The only bad thing about the game is the stealth it is so unbalanced and unsatisfying.but this game is a must buy for a PS4 owner
Yes yes yes. Yes a thousand times! It's refreshing these days to see a game actually live up to its hype. No, it's not perfect, but the homogeneous world Sucker Punch created is just breathtaking, and I found myself surprisingly invested in the vivid and emotional story.
I made a Metacritic account so I could give this game a solid well-deserved 9/10. I bought this game on release day and have been playing with it for about 3 to 4 hours a day now, and I am taking my time to do all the side quests and find all the hidden location. I am still on the first of the 3 territories and I am happy to know that I still have a lot of gameplay to go through. The only couple of reasons that I don't like about the game are: 1. The main character Jin Sakai, he is not really memorable, he doesn't feel that emotional when he speaks most of the time. But that can be because he is a samurai, so that might have to do with his upbringing.(Still haven't completed the game, so it might change later). 2. The kunai, they are too OP, even on HARD mode, which I am playing it at. If you upgrade your kunai, you can even use 3 of them with 1 button click, and do double damage if you upgrade again. Every enemy gets staggered when they get hit, even the leaders and the big guys with the shields. I hope this changes later on, or else you can just cheese through some portions of the game. (Still haven't completed the game, so it might change later). 3. The horse, although you are able to fight on the horse, it is useless if you get to get in sword range, the AI can just make the horse fall with one hit. (Still haven't completed the game, so it might change later). In other people's reviews I see them complaining about the camera. Although I can understand that the camera can feel clunky sometimes, it is necessary that the camera moves like that. It is because the AI tends to surround you, so you can't focus on one person or direction at all times. This is one of those games that makes me happy I bought a PS4 for the exclusives, and I hope that Sucker Punch Productions makes a sequel that might take place in the Sengoku Jidai era.
I'm not a fan of Asia-located games but boy! This game is awesome. It has all the elements Assassin's Creed series lack at such a level: satisfying stealth, great combat system and exploration. The story is ok, acting is at least good if not really good. The graphics and virws are breathtaking and it's one of the most beautiful games on PS4. Ghost of Tsushima doesn't also hamfist us with political correctness and overwhelming "shock method" (Yes, I'm looking at you Mr Druckmann and ND) which is great. If nothing unexpected happens in the last months of 2020 it's going to be the game of the year
Amazing scenes photo mode actually worth using for once in a game story line is good side quest enjoyable afew bugs but could be easily fixed in a patch
Exceptionally fun game. Yes that’s right fun. Not political or trying to be a social commentary. The fact TLOU2 got in the 90s and this the 80s just goes to show the horrible direction games might go but show the love for this. It’s a game full of life and fun, exploration and wonder. I’d probably go as far to say that it’s one of the best open world RPG I’ve ever played. I haven’t left the first island yet so this could change but I like all the side quests, the fox dens, following the birds to hidden location, the loot system, the gear, the skills. They are all brilliant. The only negative for me has been the camera angle in some fights and the stealth which isn’t as good as it perhaps could have been. But when the combat is so much fun who cares? The bow is great too, especially the longbow. So satisfying. Just a really great game.
I’m half way into the game, I’m lost doing a lot of stuff, and the story it’s not original but not bad at all, the overall mechanics are fun, during the standoffs you feel powerful and that it’s an amazing feeling, the Boss fights are tough but not frustrating and the side missions even thou are errands like any other game, doesn’t feel like fetch missions, if you dedicate the first hours to do side missions you will be more than prepared for later fights.

Amazing game. The story, fighting, scenery, graphics. Just well done! And the story is huge. Already playing 5 days and it feels like only in the middle of the game and cannot get enough and it is not boring. Just amazing as said before
El juego está bastante bien , tiene mucho contenido y aún habiéndolo terminado sigo teniendo cosas que hacer o simplemente dar vueltas por el mundo , tiene sus cosas malas como el ritmo un poco de la campaña que tiene picos pero se acaba como quedando en una línea muy normal , la historia no está mal en verdad ,más interesante y más creíble que en muchos otros casos , sin hacer spoiler ni nada si este juego,o si te gusta la ambientación o el Gameplay si habéis visto es un juego que merece mucho la pena de verdad
Felt desire to beat game before reviewing in order to give full honest opinion. :Unpatched Version: ...... [Visuals] 9.5) [Audio] 8.0) [Control] 8.5) [First Impression] 10.0 [Lasting Impression] 9.0 .... Best Qualities: +Landscapes very life like and always evoking a sense of wonder. +Varied combat that requires skill/ technique +Satisfyingly gory finishing moves. +Cool ending that had realistic ramifications. +Horse controls and platforming enhance thrill of exploration. +Side Missions similar scope to main quests. +Photo-mode gives incentive to admire scenery from whatever perspective of player's will. ... Worst Qualities: - Cut scenes can't be skipped which hampers replay for me. - Too many actions mapped to same button. - Toggling stance or items clunky feeling - Can't reset cam with button press/ no manual lock on toggle - AI not reacting realistically to noise at times. - Too many instant game-over levels after being spotted. - Repetitive enemy clones. - Upgrading system unoriginal/ formulaic. - Story takes self too serious at times.

The game itself reminds me a lot of the assassins creed games which I both like and dislike at the same time but it doesn't take away from the gaming experience. The map is very large and prompts the user to go and explore its massive landscape. If you love long games and massive environments this is the game for you.

This game came out of no where for me, I didn’t watch many trailers or gameplay... and I had some left over money cause so I bought it. I can say very confidentially is PLAY THIS GAME it’s amazing! The beautiful world mixed with an amazing combat system just drags me in and can keep me for hours. The world may not be as “alive” as RDR2 but being in this world I’m so immersed. My take on the story: The story i found very cool! It’s a very cut and dry (no pun intended) samurai story, but boy does is this story told well. The side quest literally are so well told that they are mixed into the main story. Without spoiling it, the story is very cool and fun to get through. My take on the combat: The combat I find to be very dynamic which I think is a must. Pretty much every single fight is a cinematic masterpiece there’s always something in a fight that will make you feel “awesome” afterwards. There’s duels in this game that send chills down your spine when you see jin (the main character) push his sword out of his sheath right before the fight begins! Then upgrade system is super fun! 4 different stances, 20 plus moves you can unlock, a bunch of special stealth and combat gadgets to unlock! All in all I’m gonna give it a 9/10 I don’t remember a game that made me feel so epic when playing it... I think the last game I felt that way was sekiro! This game is fun, immersive, dynamic, and beautiful! Get it. Play it. Love it.
Does not bring much new to the table, but what it delivers is a solid package without bloat. My favourite open world game since Horizon Zero Dawn. Love the visuals, the combat system, the emphasis on classic japanese storytelling that we know from kurosawa movies and that every place you visit feels like a new place instead of the copy/paste we know from AC Odyssey and Origins.

I'm so glad I saved my cash for this game instead of Disc one for FF7 remake. 12 HOURS IN and theres still so much to do. the stealth mechanics are a little wonky but it feels like "The Witcher 3" and "Assassins Creed(before Syndicate)" had a baby Named it :Ruroni Kenshin" then made a game. super fantastic!
Stunning landscapes/visuals along with satisfying combat and a good story make this game a superb addition to the PlayStation catalogue of games. Thoroughly recommended.

This could be most aesthetically pleasing game I ever played, it's amazing how many screen shots I took since started playing. I'm not very familiar with Japan and samurai history, but this game made very interested in it, been watching a lot of documentaries about the mongol invasion of Japan lately. And not only that, this game is very fun to play, the combat is great, the story, the tales and legends are very well designed and captivating. There's the right amount of weapons and armors to keep you engaged in farming materials. And the immersion/role playing factor is also amazing. Why I am not giving this game a 10/10? Because the camera is really annoying, it's very easy to lose your enemies and sometimes trees or buildings will hide your char during combat, I hope this issue gets fixed soon. Other than that, congratulations to Sucker Punch for this amazing game.
Jogo muito divertido, combate viciante, Gráficos ótimos, cada vez mais vontade de explorar pra ganhar itens, tem dois defeitos que impede de dar nota 10 a dificuldade não é alta e a inteligência artificial tá meio burra várias vezes vejo npc parado olhando pra parede
between its surreal graphics and art style that made it visually stunning and engaging just to be in the world...its gameplay crosses many variations for many gamers to enjoy or suit their play style. Only gripe is that...it isn't massive enough world :)

Amazing game. I'm in love with the atmosphere and landscape in this game. The story is well written. The characters are likeable. The gameplay is phenomenal. Definitely recommend.
The game has to be one, if not the, visually stunning game. The story so far (almost finished Act 2) is amazing and really makes you feel the struggle that Jin faces of upholding his honor as samurai, or doing what it takes to drive the Mongol invaders from his homeland. The combat isnt revolutionary, but it hits all the marks. Its fluid, It is easy to get overwhelmed is you mess up, the enemies arent paper tigers, you cant just sit and mash buttons. The map, though large, feels lived in. Even the npcs have such life to them. All in all a briliant gam. High recommend it
This game is great. Is astonishingly beautiful. I am about 10 hours in and can't get enough. Lots to do and a compelling story. It's a samurai story so if you like that genre this game is for you. There is a ton of lore,lots of weapons and armor and did i mention how beautiful the styling is? This is a game like HZD and RDR2 and Days gone, where you constantly have to stop and look around because it is that damn beautiful. This is definitely in the running for my pick of GOTY, pending Cyberpunk. You wont be disappointed!
Love this game! The world is beautiful as beautiful if not more than Horizon Zero Dawn. The combat is slick and fluid, reminiscent of Batman Arkham games. You NEVER feel bored playing Ghost of Tsushima and is honestly one of the first games in a LONG time that has me playing non-stop, until my body literally feels tired. Seriously, when I play this game, it's almost as if time stops! Super fun! I just want to keep playing until its completed! And WHOA! So much content! The map is bigger than it looks and there is a lot to do. A LOT of time to just finish that first southern part of the island in act 1.
wonderful game i spent 11 hours just to play side quest this is the first time since witcher 3 and Monster hunter world,really love the graphic,music and scenery so much color,sucker punch really did good job.
8.9. The storyline was incredible. It shows what war does to people and the action taken to save ones home, be honorable or seen as evil. There was some major FPS drops when it came to the boss battle. But overall, I highly recommend giving this one a try before anything else made this year.
One of the greatest atmospheres in a videogame. All the details are amazing, and the side quests... oh boy, the side quests are so good and so compelling.
I am officially the 593rd platinum for Ghost of Tsushima, I wanted to platinum this game before leaving thoughts because I felt the quality and consitency of the game deserved my time. I break my reviews down into six categories and score them as such: - Gameplay: 9/10 - Score: 9/10 - Aesthetics: 10/10 - Graphics: 10/10 - Voice Acting: 8/10 - Story: 9/10 Overall this comes to a 9/10 for me, would probably be 93 for me on a 100pt scale. Gameplay: The gameplay in GoT is fantastic, I played on the hardest difficulty and the reason I chose to do so was I wanted to really get into the combat in this game. The combat loop is focused on two distinct areas, Ghost (stealth) and Samurai and the way the game blends these two forms into the story and themes is great (more on that in the story section). Overall Samurai combat in this game is stellar, it's everything you could ask for with combat requiring quick thinking and good timing. Stealth gameplay is a little... I'd say underbaked or too easy. If the goal was to direct players towards Stealthing (which it might've been given the themes), then SuckerPunch definitely created a combat system that heavily favors stealth of Sword fighting. Score: The score is sparse when it needs to be and powerful when you want it to be. Oftentimes I found myself riding through an amazing looking environment and wondering "man where's the score" then I'd crest a hill, see something in the distance and all of a sudden flutes and drums start crashing in, created some really amazing and emotional moments. The points where they bring in vocals are really executed well, and the score is incredibly authentic and immersive for the setting. Aesthetics and Graphics: Usually I set these apart but I mean come on, google this game and tell me it isn't one of the most beautiful games ever released. The game touted a "Kurosawa Mode" as a selling point but honestly, robbing yourself of the colours in this game would be a travesty. I honestly can't understate how many times this game's environments blew me away, the entire colour spectrum is used to amazing effect, truly a masterpiece in this regard. Voice Acting and Story: For this game I chose to use the English voice tracks, usually I'd be fine with the Japanese track however the lip sync is in English no matter which language you play. This won't be an issue for most people but I happen to be partially deaf and when listening to people speak, lips not matching the dialogue throws me way off. So English cast it is, and even then I have to say its extremely impressive what this cast is able to do. Across the board every actor does a great job at being a believable and grounded character. There can be a tendancy in games to go "larger than life" with the characters but here they're very well acted and extremely immersive. Goes to show that even though the game is set in feudal Japan, the fact everyone was speaking English was not immersion breaking for me in the slightest. Story-wise the game is an interesting case; I won't get too into the weeds of what did and didn't work but I will summurise as this; the main story itself is actually fairly sparse, though often times it's incredibly high quality and well crafted. I believe there's something like 18-20 main missions, compared to around 65+ side missions and content. What this means is the pacing of the narrative is largely player dependant and so your feelings on things may vary. SuckerPunch did a LOT of work on continuity, and that is extremely appreciated. As missions are optional and can be completed at almost any time, there are many contextual lines that reflect where you are in the main story (i.e. if I did mission X before a side quest, they may refer to the upcoming Mission X. If I did the side quest after Mission X, the characters might refer to the events of Mission X in past tense, this is really awesome). Summary: Overall, an achievement in world design and environment art. As we move into the next generation of games there is a case to be made for artistic expression over realism, and while some studios like Naughty Dog will assuredly continue in their endeavor to make games look and play more realistically, I am happy there are other studios out there like SuckerPunch who are willing to take liberties and just make amazing experiences. On my scale of: Unmissable, Play it Sooner, Play it Later or Maybe On a Rainy Day, Ghost of Tsushima easily gets an Unmissable
I am truly impressed by this game. If you like Japanese history, ninja, samurai etc.....you HAVE to get this game. The combat system is spectacular! Truly cinematic. Every slash counts. The visuals, art direction, graphics.....ridiculous....I do not know how they managed this on a 7 year old system.
While certain games aim to virtue signal, make political statements, and are otherwise hell-bent on destroying on a beloved franchise; Ghost of Tsushima focusses on being a FUN GAME. The visuals of this game are breathtaking, I've found myself stopping myself mid-quest to take pictures with the in-game photo-mode. And I NEVER use photo-mode, that's how beautiful this game is! The combat is fluid, swift, and brutal. You are given a variety of sword stances and tools at your disposal suited for any situation; which is further complemented by a skill tree that progresses at the perfect pace, making you feel like you're always improving. The story itself is gripping but can be overly serious at times. I would've liked some more comedic relief but I understand why there isn't, since the game takes place in feudal Japan as Mongolian's take over Tsushima. Lastly, the game handles Japan's culture with respect and sensitivity. I have no clue what some people are complaining about! This isn't "cultural appropriation", it's CULTURAL APPRECIATION! That said, I highly recommend buying this game before this console generation ends!

Ghost of tsushima presents a story that ties you to the game, from the main quests to the side quests, with a vast map of things to do and yes, with rewards worth exploring. The fight is the strong point of the game, with a complex and fun combat system, no combat will be the same, you are approaching it in a different way. The graphics have certain problems with some textures, but that does not fail to make it one of the most beautiful of the generation, with an incredible art direction! The camera sometimes gets in the way, but it gets used to the combat system and camera, it ends up bothering with time. The photo mode is incredible, I spent hours on it, complete and with many filters that make the scenery even more beautiful. It's a game worth the full price and the best open world on ps4 in 2020.
This has become one of my favourite games of all time. From the absolutely beautiful open game world, to the refreshing combat that makes it feel like I'm actually hitting someone with a sword, and one of the best photo modes I've had the joy to play around with, allowing for some of the most amazing picture capture I've ever seen. Even with the small amount of knowledge I have of Japan and of the time time period, I can see the amount of effort the developers have put into the game to recreate an authentic recreation of feudal Japan. It offers an incredible gaming experience that feels like you're in a Japanese samurai movie and will define this generation of PS4. I wholeheartedly recommend that you try this game out as soon as possible.
Muy buen juego, muy envolvente con su mundo y movimientos. Lo único que debieron hacer mejor fue la interacción con el agua y mejorar la forma en que se ve el agua. Tiene algunos problemas que espero que en un futuro reparen pero en general esta muy bien.
Great game, but nothing up to its hype! Decent graphics (but see God of War, Last of Us 2 for best results), gameplay fairly repetitive and not the best camera (no lock-on feature for enemies and messy close quarter situations). NPCs and secondary characters could use some brushing up too, and don't look the best esthetically.

MUST PLAY!!! Addictive, Beautiful, and Excellent like no other game with it's unique story and combat styles. Everything feels incredible and plays just right.One of the best open-world game in 2020. Ghost of Tsushima is not overwhelming with crappy contents but just enough good quality activities to thoroughly enjoy the game to the fullest. It is also designed in a way so that every type of gamer can really enjoy it (hardcore or casual). Anyone who owns a PS4 have to play this game, whenever it is possible for you and trust me i have a 100% completion on Ghost of Tsushima in the first 3 days of its release and now I'm half way through my second play through and loving every minute of it. Therefore my only disappointment was the difficulty level with only 3 (easy, medium, and hard). While playing on Hard after finishing Act 1, i realized the hard difficulty was not a challenge for me since i do everything in the current Act before proceeding to the next area. However it doesn't make me want to play any less. I'm just hoping for some DLC with new skills, weapons, armor, new difficulty levels and a max level increase (health and resolve etc..) and in the future a sequel :D

Best Game this year! Its like Assasins creed on Steroids with better Combat better Grafiks!
Amazing game. Great visuals and sound. Japan ambientation is near perfect and the game play is awesome. It is not perfect though. Some foot clipping on the ground, some animations could be a little better. Solid 9/10
WOW.. Just wow Sucker Punch. You really knocked it out of the park with this one. Just beat the game today & this game truly amaze me. It really had me deeply emotional attached with how beautiful the story is & more. Nothing but greatness & a way to send off the PS4 with it's final exclusive before the PS5. I have to say this is game of the year right here.
Doens't really bring anything new to a table gameplay-wise, but the presentation/visuals are top notch and the game gets never boring. Everything considered, Sucker Punch Productions really did an amazing job with this one.



Buena historia, buena jugabilidad, buenos graficos y un increible y hermoso mapa, simplemente un exelente juego del cual no me arrepiento de haberlo comprado y sin duda lo jugaré mas de una o dos veces
By FAR the best game i have played in a long time and i am well immersed into the story and the visuals so far. It looks amazing and everything someone would want in an open world game and it lived up the hype and my expectations. Side tales are well made and detail has been put into them. The combat is amazing and challenging and takes skill to master. One thing that could have been done better would have been the boss challenges at camps which all seem to feel the same but its not such a big deal. With that said i am very satisfied with this game and i want to thank Sucker Punch for making an awesome open world Samurai game that will be remembered for ages. Definitely GOTY worthy!
Gameplay incrível, história ótima, ótimos gráficos, trilha sonora, apenas a câmera precisa melhorar um pouco e algumas partes (poucas) o gráfico tem uma leve queda, enfim, um dos melhores jogos da geração PS4 e do ano
A well trodden style of gameplay, but executed brilliantly. I did encounter a small number of bugs, nothing either game breaking or enjoyment stealing. I'll probably have at least a second playthrough while I'm waiting for Cyberpunk.
Almost a perfect game for me. Reminds me of the witcher 3 a bit with the open world and just you and your horse exploring the map. A must play for any playstation 4 owner!
This game is insane! Graphics wise, world-wise, combat-wise. Where I cant say this game is fully masterpiece, but in some way it is. Breath taking world with awesome use of colours and vibes. I LOVED the Haiku. There should've been more lines for the poem. The music is awesome. Combat wise is great. However, there are some annoying glitches that happens from time to time and it is very frustrating. They could've taken more time to address these glitches, but really doesn't effect the experience much. I recommend it to everyone. Great story, great cinematics. I loved the duels. The voice actors are amazing. Great cultural game. Well done Sucker Punch!
If you’re a fan of history, samurai, beautiful open worlds, or feeling like a badass character, please don’t pass on this game. I currently have over 20+ hours in the game and I feel like I’m just shy of the halfway mark. I’ve done more of the side quest and mythic quest then the actual main quest at this point and it’s great. This is hands down the best looking game of this generation, besides last of us 2 (don’t get me started on the butthurt fans of that game trying to trash this one...yes I also played it and didn’t hate it but didn’t love it), and you will stop multiple times to go into photo mode and take amazing pictures and just be blown away but the scope and detail of the world. Gameplay, in my opinion, is fantastic. This is also playing on hard so the enemies don’t “wait” to attack you like I’ve herd some people say happen. You definitely need to change between all four stances on the fly and utilize all of the equipment you eventually unlock in some situations and I feel like you are constantly rewarded for all play styles. Story I have been actually liking a lot. I do believe that Witcher 3, Horizon zero dawn and the last of us (original) all pulled me in more. However, this completely satisfies my samurai dreams of cutting down bad guys easily with effortless ease and has even gotten me to get a bit choked up during certain parts of the game so far. Yea there are bugs, I have experience no game breaking ones as of right now but have had a god laugh at some of the small ones. Word of advice, if the game is too easy...bump it up to hard. Also if you are having a hard time with the game, equip the charm that allows you to gather more resources as you will quickly find you can max out armor easily and even your bows. I’m definitely looking forward to completing the rest of this game and I’m glad to say I owned this day one. May even end up spotting into the top 10 for games I have played tbh!
Great gameplay and story! Beautiful atmosphere while the combat is fun and complex without being overwhelming. Some parts of the game seem a little repetitive though, but the landscape makes it worth exploring. Also the actors and characters in the game are not white washed! So cool!


This game was very good. I would almost say its great but its somewhat unpolished in some aspects. Its combat is where this game drops the ball a bit. Enemy AI is laughably dumb, camera can get in the way too much and there isnt much that can be done to remedy this since you fight with the face buttons. Stance switching wasnt very nuanced at all. Just there to stagger enemies and leave them open. Most other attacks you unlock for stances are pretty much useless as they arent anymore viable than your basic moves. Other aspects of the gameplay include doing some pretty great side stories, some of which span the entirety of the game with many twists and turns. Although the endings to them can be hit or miss. This gane never really gets repetitive either. Theres alot of different collectibles to find and mongol territories to do. But since you can tackle then in any order its really your fault if it becomes repetitive. The story was well done with well written characters. Some archs i wouldve liked to see a bit more fleshed out. Overall, this game was good and I welcome a sequel if Sucker Punch chooses to return to Jin Sakai in the future.
Nicely done, albeit a tad naive rendition of feudalist Japan. It makes you wonder: we got so used to crappy open world Ubisoft games that when a game of this quality comes along, we hail it as genius -- while it's only a good game, nothing REALLY special -- but this is the bare minimum quality that Assassins Creed and Far Cry games should have stuck to. The colors and the visuals are great, the island's design is the game's most important feature and thankfully it doesn't want to be the next unplayable Sekiro or Dark Souls. But overall it's nothing we've never seen before: kind of repetitive tasks, not-so-special main quest and a main character that is hard to emphatize with.
Let me start by saying this. I hate majority of PS4 exclusives. I think majority of them have mediocre to bad gameplay, repetitive linear/open world games, bland characters and stories, None offer new things in the industry, heck GoW is the worst game i've ever bought. Now thats out of the way. GoT stands for itself, story is good and interesting, supported by characters from remarkable to bland. Gameplay stars mediocre at the beginning but it gets better everytime you proceed or level up i loved it. The settings and environment are awesome and catchy, with that sweet sweet photomode. OSTs are meh at best, wish they used more and plays when adventuring in Tsushima. Open world activities are nothing new, with side missions that have the same approach everytime (Kill Mongols, wait for Mongols etc) which is also implemented in every types of missions where's the creativity? Light up lighthouse, liberate the area you get it and you probably saw it in every open world game before. But i loved how directions work with the guiding wind. Conclusion : good story supported by great gameplay and a world design, affected by repetitive world activities, no variations of enemies (Sowrdsmen-spearmen-shieldmen-huge guys and archers) you literally only face 5 enemy types throughout the whole game lol.
Finished the platinum today. Was playing HARD+Extreme difficulty yesterday and today. This is game is stunning, stylish, with cool combat mechanics (love boss fights) but its really casual imo (not first 2-3 hours), most of side quests are boring (exept some characters quests-lines and legendary quests - they are great), sometimes game feels like a non-stop grind of some stuff and main story is not that emotional and interesting. Anyways this game is solid 8-8.5~, this is truly beautiful and enjoyable game. Cheers from Russia!)
Storm Is Coming. Samurai Warriors Becomes Ghost To Saves Tsushima. When Mercy Falls Then Patriotism Shall Rise. The year is 1274. Samurai Warriors Are The Legendary Defenders Of Japan -- Until The Fearsome Mongol Empire Invades The Island Of Tsushima. At That Time Jin Sakai Was (The Head Of Clan Sakai). He Is The Nephew Of Lord Shimura (The Jitō Of Tsushima). The General Of Mongol Empire Was The Ruthless And Cunning Khotun Khan. Game Features: Genre: The Best Action - Adventure And Stealth Game Ever. A Third - Person Perspective. It Features A Large Open World Developed By Sucker Punch Production. ESRB Certified Rating: M For Mature. Only For 17+ Children. Gameplay: Game Contains Two Playstyles, The Honorable Samurai And The Dishonorable Ghost. The Honorable Samurai Playstyle Contains Standoff Mode And The Dishonorable Ghost Playstyle Contains Assassination Mode By Using Stealth Attacks and Special Tools. Gear And Weapons: The Most Important Weapon In The Game Is Jin's Katana And Sakai Storm. Good News For PS5 Gamers: Ghost of Tsushima Will Be Playable On PS5. Sony's Said That You'll Be Able To Play 1,000s Of PS4 Games On Its Next - Gen System And Given Ghost Of Tsushima's Status Within The System's Library, It'll Almost Certainly Be Among The List.
Not sure why this game has an 83 its pretty close to a perfect score in my opinion. Thrilling swordplay of sekiro and great map exploration of witcher 3 without all the clutter of the hud. Everyone is free to their opinions but you probably shouldn't hangout with people who don't like this game.
Very good open world game. Positives: - The most beautiful open world map ever made. - Good history - Fateful to japonease history - Great combat system - Amazing graphics - Impeccable sound Negatives: - Needed more attention to details like Jim walking into stairs - Little execution variations - Only right arm is cut off - Water is very bad
Beautiful game, something like looking at a painting. The combat is great and hold up for most of the game. I did get open world fatigue in act 3 and it started to get really repetitive. One thing I would say is that act 1 was good, act 2 was amazing, and 3 was very underwhelming until the very last fight. Khotun Khan was so charismatic and smart when we were introduced to him but in the end he wasn't a very good at all. He served his purpose is what I would say but their was nothing great about him. The music was phenomenal. It was more like a movie soundtrack than a video game's. The stealth weapons were fun to use but the enemy AI in stealth situations is frankly not good. The enemies are very static, stand around waiting for you to kill them. The absolute worst thing about this game is the sheer amount of trailing missions and following footsteps in mud. This is not fun, it's the same stuff you do in every other boring open world game. One thing I wish there was more of was the duels. They were so much fun, I feel like I didn't get enough of them.
Fantastic and beautiful world, smooth action combat, and samurai game i ever want.. No monster, god, or even demon.. Just story about human nature, war.. I hope samurai game will be flourish in the next generation and from japan developer..
Game of the year so far! The story is very interesting and the side quests are great too and sometimes it makes me wonder why some of them aren’t main story missions because they’re so detailed and fun to play through. Combat is fantastic until the camera angle interferes but it doesn’t happen too often. Sometimes the difficulty can spike randomly and I was able to retry the area if I died and beat it with different methods of approach, but that could also be fixed by just grinding out the mongol camps and side missions and you should be able to blast through it with no issues. Some of the cutscenes and lip syncing to the dialogue can be a little wonky but that’s a nitpick honestly. And honestly most of these are nitpicks because the rest is so great I was able to look over all of that. So I wouldn’t say it’s perfect but it’s pretty close.


Amazing. Perfection. Greatest of all time. Just a few things that come to mind when playing ghost of Tsushima game is a must have for ps4. Absolute masterpiece.
Игра подарила новые эмоции, заставила переживать из за выбора героя. Интересный сюжет и красивая графика для фат пс4. Надеюсь SP продолжат создавать подобные игры



With an engaging story, fun combat, and great voice acting, Ghost of Tsushima smashes all expectations I had in the months leading up to it. And aesthetically speaking, I truly feel it’s the most beautiful game of all time imo. What a way to send off the PS4 before heading into the next console generation.
A stunning game with an impactful story of honour and the need of replacing traditions in fear of dogmatic responses to an ever changing world. A must play and a gem in the Playstation Exclusives.

Mad Respect to Sucker punch Studio u ended the legacy of ps4 with this masterpiece Dammmmmm. I legit cried out of happiness when i played this masterpiece. U can cure depression with this game ngl.

In breve: Il gioco mi ha divertito un Sacco. Era da tempo che non mi prendevo così tanto per un videogioco. La trama è ben fatta e le attività secondarie si lasciano finire tranquillamente senza mai annoiare. Dal mio punto di vista è un gioco da 9(incentrato maggiormente sul gameplay), ma per protesta gli do 10 visto che in Italia a mio parere è stato criticato un po’ pesantemente(mi riferisco al 7.5 si everyeye)
Great game that’s has a beautiful opening! I loved almost every second of this beautiful and lush game. Even though the stealth gameplay is very average, the samurai gameplay is satisfying. The story while not very interesting, the side characters have some astonishing traits that kept me playing the game. Can’t wait to see what this studio comes out with next.
gameplay is really good but I didn't feel like I relate to any of the characters. the story could have been much better and the side missions seemed repetitive and kinda boring. the only reason I'm giving this an 8 is the gameplay which is one of the best gameplays I've seen in a game.
Good Game , first , the graphics are pretty amazing , they are on of the best I see on these generation. Also in the game you can feel like a Samurai , and thats pretty cool ! Very amazing Game 10 /10
A masterpiece all around from everything from music, game play, and story. Minor complaints with stuff fazing through stuff but nothing major. Perfect way to end off the PlayStation 4 generation.
Loved this game its truly a masterpiece of art and design. It only loses a point for some repetition in the late game and a few bugs her and there. Ive gotten stuck and fallen threw the map a few times but i very much enjoyed the game.All in all a solid 9.5

I love this game! It's very impressive how the combat system is the best of the last decade of videogames. The story and direction is simple but effective.
This game is a masterpiece. I see critiques about historic accuracy. Who said it had to be? Are there any popular games about medieval England that are historically accurate, or do we throw in some dragons and fictional kingdoms and not give a sh*? Nobody is going to assume this is real. Nobody is being misrepresented. The graphics achieved in this game are mind blowing, making you enjoy your aging console that’s about to be replaced by the PS5 as if it was new again, but it’s not only the graphics that make it great. Everything from the standoff mechanics, to petting foxes instead of stupidly shooting at anything that moves, brings thoughtful and welcome changes to the genre. It really deserves a score of 90 or higher. It’s a shame there are so many trolls who are out to discredit Sony’s exclusives. Either that or people have become so spoiled and ignorant, it’s nearly impossible to please.
Oyun atmosfer olarak başarılı dövüş sistemi çok başarılı ben hikaye olarak iyi birşey beklemiyordum beklentim düşüktü ama oyun gayet akıcı güzel
Back when the original Last of Us was released on the PS3 it was probably the greatest exclusive to finish off that console generation. And Sony did that again with Ghost of Tsushima. This game is basically being a pretty badass samurai and is one groundbreaking way to finish off the PS4 era of games. You should pick this game up for your PS4. I can't wait to see what other games SuckerPunch will release cause they blew my mind with this game. One gameplay element that I wish was there is a lock on mode for enemies. The camera is pretty bad at tracking you and sometimes you can't even see enemies. But other than that it's a pretty good game i think you should pick up if you have a PS4 or if you're reading this in the future for your PS5. As said previously, this game was one HUGE way to finish off the PS4 game library after the huge disappointment that was the Last of Us 2. JUST GET THIS GAME STOP READING MY REVIEW.
Wow! This game man...it can't quite beat out Persona 5 Royal as best game 2020, but it sure tries very hard! It goes without saing that this game is FAR superior to that woke dumpster fire which is The Woke of Us Part 2. The shill media and game "urinalists" have tried very hard to push their agenda on this, but nope...Japan doesn't lie. And Japan LOVES this Western developed game. The critics scored this lower than TLOU2 because they were PAID to. But the TLDR here... Ghosts of Tsushima > TLOU2. Easy review.
In an age where most AAA games are plagued by greed and political correctness, this game is a beacon of hope, shining amidst the darkness; a sign that perhaps not all hope is lost for the future of the gaming industry.
A perfect sendoff for the PS4 engaging story with a great combat system. Upgrade system is fun and rewarding. Side tasks are fun. Some of the best graphics I’ve seen this console generation I can’t fathom how beautiful this game is and Photo mode is a great finishing touch to this amazing game
No spoilers are mentioned in this review, feel safe to read it. The world that sucker punch crafted is unlike no other I've experienced in previous open world games. The contrast colors and care that went into every patch of field on every corner you turn is unparalleled to how other games expand their world by what looks like copy and paste. Coupled this with an amazing combat system that adapts with your skill level growing as a player is innovative to how you approach each enemies, as to oppose getting more health and stronger, though these are present here, the game challenges you by forcing you to be a better player and utilizes your brain rather than repetitive button mashing. The story stays true to its world and history, and is easily conveyed to the player. Characters are okay and you do care for them and their quests. The few gripes I have, is the touch pad to trigger wind guide, flute and other emojiis, it is easily triggered just by accidentally Brushing it with your thumb. Some obstacles you have to climb, such as trees and planks are not responsive, and you have to jump on it in order to get across gaps. Other than that, this game went well beyond my expectations and is a breath of fresh air considering the massive disappointment The Last Of Us 2 was. Bravo Suckerpunch.
Juicy samurai goodnesses. Graphics, music, combat, and gameplay in general are lovely af. The unique exploration elements are a refreshing change. There was a lot of care, passion, and thoughtfulness put into the game, and it shows. As for the story, I can’t say much because I’m only 1/4ish into the game...thus far though, it isn’t a modern day Iliad but it also isn’t a lazy, pandering, dumpster fire that is The Last of Us part 2.
If you like Nioh, Sekiro, Tenchu or Ninja Gaiden then you will enjoy this game. It’s fun and I love the setting. Also there is no agenda or **** politics either. Lots of blood and action. Cool skill trees and techniques to unlock. Open world samurai action all day. Worth the purchase for me...
Amazing experience! I have played about 20 hours and I'm still on Act 1 with multiple things to still do. Game is a love child between Zelda: Breath of the Wild and Red Dead Redemption 2....with Samauri and Ninjas. Graphics make you want to live in the game world. Must buy.
Ghost of Tsushima is my favorite game of 2020. It creates an open world that is breathtaking and fun to be in. SuckerPunch has made a game that forces you to look around and take in the world through exploration. Not having a mini map and cluttering the screen with useless HUDS was a genius idea and will become the new norm in open world games moving forward. I have had so much fun with this games combat over the course of my journey. Wether I am taking down enemies using standoff,stealth or just regular combat it has not once become old or stale. The atmosphere and way the world moves around you is second to none. Sunsets are a joy to behold and each location feels like it was made with love and attention. There is no copy and past here. Each environment feels and is it's own place. Load times are none existant and some of the fastest I have ever experienced. You can tell the developers put a lot of love into this title and enjoyed making it. I will definitely be playing this game again and this time I will use the black and white filter the game offers. If you love Japanese lore this game is a love letter to you and there's enough here for casuals as well.
This game just gets better with every second you play it, the combat is just soo smooth, feels real, ever sword cut has weight to it. The story? ITS THERE for sure, this may be the only game where you are not getting bored by the flashbacks from the past


Start-up the game, drop it on highest difficulty and turn on the Kurosawa Mode and now You are the Samurai. Great combat, amazing beauty and a very strong competitor for Game of the Year.

Ghost of Tsushima is, in my very PERSONAL opinion, perfect. Graphics-stunning. Gameplay,-fast, fun and brutal. Story-interesting and engaging (although the characters take some time to warm up to). This game is honestly completely breathtaking. As ign would say, this game really makes you FEEL like a samurai, and I mean that. This game somehow manages to be challenging while somehow making you feel invincible at the same time. The best part is definitely the environments, which can only really be compared to the Witcher 3 in terms of sheer beauty, but I think Ghost looks even better. This game can be both calming and beautiful and fast and action packed. My only criticism is that characters have pretty bad facial animations during cutscenes. Its annoying. Apart from that, perfection. MASTERPIECE.
Ghost of Tsushima es una sorpresa muy agradable. Con mucho contenido y secretos que valen la pena. Combates que sí presentan un reto y por lo cuál explorar y mejorar las habilidades tiene sentido. Con una historia y no recuerditos regados por el mapa. Sin armas repetidas por todos lados para rellenar. Con verdaderos combates de jefes. Un mundo hermoso y variado. Candidato a Goty seguro.

Visually stunning and amazing best looking game in the PS4 by far right there with Red Dead Redemption 2 I've been waiting for a samurai/ninja hybrid game since onimusha and the closest thing we had was Sekiro. Great game only downside for me is there is no lock on system and the camera gets in the way of the action sometimes, the occasional auto lock on glitch when characters are miles away only experienced it like twice in my 100+ hours of gameplay. Other than that almost perfect game great job Sucker Punch like always THIS IS FOR ME THE GAME OF THE YEAR DEFINITELY WORTH 60 no doubt about it !!
previous one. They took a long time to release another ps4 titles but the wait was worth it. The story is amazing and it reminds me of classic japanese cinema, the music is very immersive and memorable, the graphics are mind blowing and photo mode is like a dream come true. the combat
Gráficos incríveis jogabilidade boa , história 10 , uns dos melhores exclusivos de PS4
BEWARE It's only taking the invasion of Mongol frame and put all Samurai fantasies inside it from a western fanboy perspective. I am an Asian and understand Japan, so I played the Japanese voice & subtitle version. Pros: - wonderful scenery and a powerful photo mode - cool katana "Waza" animation and clothing - main quest is interesting enough to make you engage in - vast open map with > 30 hours main storyline Cons - very repetitive and boring side quests (even the "companions' quests") - no skip button in the transition scenes - the companions are not interesting and some are voiced horrible - the main protagonist, Jin, his Japanese voice actor is too old, often not matching his face; Yuna and his little brother are also feeling odd when they are opening their mouths. The only good ones may be the Big Bad Mongolian, Jin's uncle and his childhood friend. Overall, I think the creators are too obsessed with the old Japanese Samurai TV show/movies type and they always want you to appreciate their MASTERPIECE and efforts by deliberately not allowing you to skip their wonderfully crafted art works... I will appreciate them more if they don't try so hard. Gameplay wide though, they have copied a lot of mechanics from the AC series (the stealth mode bgm is constantly reminding me the one from AC games) but also introduces a more fluid action/skill system. Yet, it is disappointing they copied the bad things from AC, like stuffing tons of bloating boring side-quest at every concerns of the map. But the katana battle feels satisfying and you can feel your character is powerful and fearsome after the mid game (perhaps OP sometimes). The game designers should understand not every one is fond of the old school Jp Samurai show style. I play a game for fun and joy and couldn't care less about how they try to recreate the legendary Kurosawa's vision or style. One last important thing: - you must not believe the game will teach you a history lesson or Japanese culture correctly just like any AC games.

Это не Assasin и не Far cry. Эта игра представляет собой микс медитации и шикарного,бодрого геймплея. В ghost of tsushima хочется изучать мир и любоваться живописными пейзажами, сочинять хокку и находить секреты. Ближайшее сравнение это играThe Flower, Tenchu и Zelda. Если вы соскучились по играм с геймплеем, шикарным визуальным наполнением, интересными сайдквестами и историей,просто купите эту игру и подивите в ней пару часов. P.S.На стримах вы не сможете полноценно оценить графику и визуальный стиль данной This is great job Sucker Punch!!!Thank you!
Absolutely love this game!! The beautiful scenery, lovingly crafted environments and characters, and story are all amazing. My personal game of the year so far!




The game is amazing. I am impressed. This game has definitely exceeded my expectations. First of all the game looks absolutely stunning. The world is beautiful, colorful and alive. The idea of removing the mini map and bringing in features like the guiding wind, birds and foxes really hit the spot for me, taking immersion to a new level. The best part of the game though in my opinion is the combat system which I feel is well planned and executed. I highly recommend playing this one.

One of the best playstation exclusives after the realease of tlou2 nioh2 final fantasy 2 and dreams with awesome atmosphere and cool art nice open world game and superb gameplsy
A truly wonderful open world with a genuinely affecting story and staggering visuals. Only some glitchy player movement, especially over rocks, spoils an otherwise perfect package.
This game is THE samurai game I have been wating for such a long time. The combat is simple to control but truly brilliant. It really does feel like you are actually being a samurai when playing it. Not too light and not too heavy. Story is a bit generic but decent enough for me to keep playing it. All the collectable things in this world doesnt go waste. Must play game.
Bravo and Congrats to Sucker Punch and to Playstation, way to send off the system. The last exclusive to PS4 is the best on the system. Gorgeous open world and brilliant story telling. Ghost of Tsushima is easily a GOTY contender along with from what I'm sure will be Cyperpunk 2077.
The graphics are amazing! The combat system is spectacular! The characters and story are excellent! And the atmosphere is perfect! All my appreciation to the Sony and playstation and Sucker Punch Productions teams! Congratulations on this masterpiece! I wouldn’t be surprised if it was a game of the year! :D

Money well spent! The combat is great the art of this world and the design is so perfect. I can go on and on its breathtaking game. Ez 10 !! Enjoy it guys.


Я ждал эту игру более года и она окупила себя с лехвой, вот что мне не хватало серъезного сюжета, отличная боевка равная богу войны вобщем все просто шикос , 12 из 10)))



Eu simplesmente não consigo parar de jogar, todas as quests, tudo nesse jogo é imersivo ao extremo, o jogo é lindo, a jogabilidade é muito boa, a história é boa, as lutas com chefões são insanas de tão maravilhosas, eu amo esse jogo por completo!
Ghost of tsushima has the most beautiful world and the greatest combat ever in any video. They story is also great although the lip sync is not the best but that does not ruin the experience. Other than it is amazing.
Amazing art design. Big attention to detail. I can't tear myself away. Amazing game. And I can’t understand why some people say that the game is bad. In my opinion it definitely one of the biggest release of this year and great completion of current generation
Я ставлю 10 из 10 это божбожественная игра. Покупайте не пожалейте. Но я в нее даже не играл. Но играл в tlou2 так что 10 из 10


O jogo está me agradando muitíssimo a SP ousou em nos apresentar este game em um período tão fascinante, sem dúvidas é um forte concorrente ao GOTY 2020.

Невероятно красивая игра с отличным сюжетом, безумно захватывающей файтингом и множеством различных интересных квестов. А открытый мир поражает своей красотой и проработке
Instantly Hooked. Smoothest Gameplay I've ever experienced. Soothing Environment. Not to deep but an Amazing story(which we expect from a good game). Thankyou Sucker Punch. This Game will help me to forget the disaster of a game I played a month ago.
Отличная игра. Какая должна быть игра. Атмосфера, сакндтрек, графика, сюжет, идея. Никаких повесток и т.д играл и получал удовольствие



This game is very awesome, I love Japan and their samurai, the story of the game is based on real historical events and I like that, the gameplay and combat are very honest and the art gives I feel like a real samurai, the graphics are very nice even though the PS4 hardware is old Story: 10/10 gameplay: 10/10 Graphics: 10/10 Sound and music: 9/10 Overall: 10/10 You should spend $ 60 to buy this game because it deserves.
Fantastic game! Stunning to look at, gorgeous open world with extremely satisfying combat and with none of the jank and no filler side quests as other games of this genre. After the mediocre TLOU2, it's great to see the PS4 go out with a bang. Up there with Days Gone, Horizon and AC Odyssey as my favourite ever open world games. Must buy!
30+ hours in. Have you ever use fast travel in open world games like AC or Horizon? So Sucker Punch knows how to make it real FAST travel, just click and in 3-5 seconds you are there, god, can't believe it, I dropped AC Odyssey because you got loading screens even at start of the dialog and "fast' travel took like 1-2 minutes... Combat system. I played Nioh and like never changed stances, because "what for?", here I change stances for every type of enemy and it doesn't feel like a burden, it feels like it is matter and I feel myself like a master or something :) Setting is epic, who doesn't like this Samurai thing? Story. I beat only first act, and it is really interesting so far, side quests have their own stories. For satisfaction: Swipe to the right after big fight!
I gave it a 10, would have loved to give it 9.7 or 9.6 but i can't. After many hours playing the thing that botherd me the most was the facial expression of the characters in the game. They could hvae done a better job there. For the other small issues... I think they will be fixed in an update and they haven't taken away any gaming experience. I love the game and advise it to all who love the open world rpg genre.

This is absolutely good game. So far, I’d played for 20 hrs. The system of game is so nice and the atmosphere is very good. Everyone have to ply this game.

Unbelievable game and the writing and story is actually awesome.. this is how a Revenge story is supposed to be told unlike TLOU2... as AVGN would say, "WHAT WERE THEY THINNNKIN" !!
One of the best exclusive games from Playstation again. Sucker Punch is known with Infamous and Sly Cooper series which were good franchises for playstation. However, Ghost of Tsushima is the best game of Sucker Punch. This game has amazing views and very good gameplay with only using Katana. Animations are not as good as the last of us part 2 but we can accept this because it is a open world game. As a Playstation fan, Sony kept his words that was a slogan "Best Place to Play". It was a fantastic generation for Ps4 players. We played many exclusive games which were candidate of game of the year! I am sure this game will be nominated as a candidate of goty as well as the last of us part 2.
This is a great game. Graphics and game play just amazing. Highly recommended. This will go down with the greats, the likes of god of war and bloodborne.

a briliant game . the script is awsome as the graphics ,the battles are intense and the cinematics to me seemed like watching a movie the thist for vengeance drops from the beginning , a thing that make you wonder how far you can go to achieve your goal .historically is pretty accurate and the landscape is remarkable. for me it seems like a masterpiece i wanted to play before ps5 comes out
The graphics are beautiful. The game has so much to offer, great mechanics, great storyline, and just great everything. Worth the money, The game is amazing.
Um game com um estilo artístico único, uma trilha sonora que respeita a temática e um gameplay simples porém rico naquilo que se propõe não deixando o jogador enjoar facilmente nas mais de 40 horas de jogo para fazer tudo o que oferece.
Это именно то, чего я ждал, но так и не дождался от Юбисофт. Игра затягивает, как в свое время затягивала Morrowind, уверен что проведу в этой игре еще очень много времени.
O jogo consegue se manter viável para uma boa experiência,por mecânicas interessantes, conceitos orientais de cair o queixo,entre outros. Com toda certeza é um jogo que deve ser jogado e apreciado por qualquer jogador que tem como intenção degustar de um ótimo jogo.
It’s the Assassin’s creed Japan we’ve been waiting all these years for, I can’t say anything else really. If you’re a fan of the gameplay of classic AC games or even just like the settings of Nioh and Sekiro then I can’t recommend this game enough.

Never played a game like it. The combat, exploration, detail, and characters are all top-notch. The combat can get to feel a little samey after a while, but that's a thing in every game. 9.8/10 from me
All I can Said Its 100x times better than Last of Us part 2. My opinion (mostly) Sriaght male lead charcter or female are better than bi or gay lead any day.
Story nice, game-play fun and the world wonderful. Like you are experiencing an old samurai movie. I hope that they do a PS 5 version with ray tracing and more textures to push the graphical limits to the maximum.
The story is very good the gameplay is the best the way of the story it's remind me of the Witcher 3
This game makes you lost track of time as you are completely immersed in one of the most fascinating and tragic times of History, and this is just one side of the conclusion by considering the aspects of lore, storytelling, characters, environment. The other side is the amazing intense gameplay which can be quite hard as you need to improve yourself with each battle and each different opponent. Overall this is a love letter to the culture of Japan with a challenging and addictive gameplay, and so if you are either a fan o japan lore or looking for new stimulating gameplay, you should try it
this game is just beautiful, the music, the gameplay and the graphics are the best it could be, the story is good so far, the world is full of activities and exploring and it's not empty at all!! the world and the side quests are not as good as a game like wither 3, but is doesnt mean they are not good!! we should not compare this game to other games. the game is so challenging at hard difficulty, the combat is just so good you never want to stop fighting. but the game suffers from some bugs. my score is a solid 9 for this game
очень крутая игра-10 с плюсом, очень понравилась, прям только восторг, долго ждал-оправдалось
I will come back to this when I finish it but as of now it is a solid 9/10. Graphics are gorgeous and the combat feels smooth and really well paced. There are some tiny little flaws like the enemy A.I and some (very little) technical issues. The side mission are a little bit repetitive but really REALLY fun. It's a great & solid game for every PS4 owner and Samurai lover. Update: WHAT. A. GAME. One of the greatest open world games i've ever played. Thank you, Sucker Punch! Final Score: 9.5/10
From the moment you start the game up, it’s so incredibly obvious that every ounce of effort was spent making this game look really really good.. because the gameplay itself is disappointingly generic. I don’t even know where to start. Movement is not snappy at all - just clunky, climbing and traversing is even worse. Jin will CONSTANTLY be tripping on tiny ledges that are barely raised a few inches above the ground in certain areas (seriously?). Menus look like traditional japanese mixed with sleek modernization that is way overdone.. it just looks corny and reminds me of AC which is so bland. No player agency in the beginning.. they hold your hand through everything. The huge world map is kinda barren.. there are SO FEW ITEMS to find in the world. Enemy variation is really weak. BOTW world is so much deeper — the comparisons are a joke. Combat camera is frustrating (unless you like being hit by things off screen). No lock on... really? Practically no control of the camera or controller settings/mappings. It’s just on rails.. you can do things at your pace and in whatever order you want but once you start a mission it’s just so linear. And the story is intriguing but executed in a very uninteresting way because the characters are just so uninteresting and generic. Nothing new, unique or original here aside for maaaybe the lack of on-screen map and ux stuff which I hate to break it to you... but minor things like that can’t save this game. But I guess in 2020 if you can make a game look rly beautiful then it’ll get rave reviews even if the gameplay is objectively mediocre? Sad. You’re given a horse immediately.. meaning exploration does not feel encouraged which is reinforced by how unrewarding it is because there’s very little variation in what you can find from exploring. Immersion is constantly broken by interruptions of something being on-rails. Lose a fight in the middle of a path? Don’t worry the enemies will literally be gone when you respawn. Infiltrating an enemy camp through the front door? Don’t worry - ever single enemy will conveniently have their backs turned to you at all times. I’m tired of writing but honestly this game is just a mess that I tried so hard to love and the beautiful environment is doing a wonderful job of making loads of people overlook its flaws that make it a game that I am not at all motivated to play... which is sad because I love just about any samurai/ninja/any japanese swordfighting game. ninja gaiden, sekiro, nioh, hell BOTW... they’re all original, have character and are just a better experience. if you want your hand held through a stunningly beautiful 40hr cinematic experience that’s a mechanical “meh” with unexciting characters.. this is the game for you lol.
Sucker Punch made the best game ever since the original Infamous game, I really glad they made that and everything this whole Samurai story is amazing, 100x better than TLOU2, the graphics are impressive, the combat is brilliant and you can explore around the island, some bosses are very tough but you get used to it

Best game that I have played this year personally very original and unique. combat is unmatched Jin is cool and his voice is dope! If you love samurai then this game will not disappoint.
Very disappointing for a first party Sony title. An incredibly generic game with very little originality. Gameplay wise, mediocre Assassin's Creed clone that adds nothing new to the formula and even manages to take a few steps backwards (namely the stealth and the AI). Story wise, a cookie cutter revenge tale brought down by sub par facial capture and animation work as well as unexceptional voice acting. My only guess as for the massive amount of positive feedback this game has received is that most gamers are peanut brained monkeys who just want the next Skinner box to waste their time on; the people that keep buying assassin's creed games over and over. Please, stop playing and praising **** games.

Great unique samurai experience game delivered was worth the 3 year wait. The combat is masterful and landscape is just beautiful the Japanese voice acting is top notch and mechanics are great it’s a basic story but sometimes simplicity is for the best and in the case of this game the story is good enough, this is a perfect way for sony to end the gen this game is a instant classic
After long anticipation, Ghost of Tsushima is finally here. The game presents a beautiful expansive world which intrigues the explorer inside me to see every inch of Tsushima. At every corner, one can always find something to do, from a compelling quest to a fun mini-game which act as collectibles. The combat is extremely satisfying, and provides a balanced experience where the player can feel like a powerful samurai, but not invincible and can easily be defeated on the wrong move. All in all this is an absolute gem and a great sendoff to the PS4 generation!
An amazing game one of the best I played this year for sure. Immersive, visually stunning, kind of plays like Assassin's Creed but without the mandatory-feeling scatter of map markers that you feel forced to complete. So happy I got to experience it and I can wholeheartedly recommend it especially if you are a fan of the feudal Japan setting.


Sunt român și imi place la nebunie jocul, am văzut că sunt câteva voturi negative dar na, ei credeau că e diferit și se oftică că e greu combat-ul :))
This is by far the beat game i have played this year and is definitely a game of the year contender, this game will shock everyone that plays it, This game truly makes You feel like a badass, the mechanics and game play/ combat is just out of this world, it forces you to study and learn about your opponents and fight with a strategy.


Very beautiful visuals. Fun game with an alright story. Could use some improvements in enemy AI and clunky combat system. Sometimes you want to attack an enemy but Jin is static facing something else and the camera can get lost many times. I love the standoffs the most.
Wonderful, I feel like a samurai. The game has some bugs that don't hinder gameplay, but nothing is so unusual that we don't see it in other acclaimed games.
Beautiful game, although definitely needed a bit more polish, and also suffers from what most open world game suffer, but it is a great game nonetheless, a must buy!
This is such a beautiful game, the soundtrack, graphics, combat system, all on this game is just amazing. The way that the game makes you feel like you're living as a samurai and showing us their culture and honor... its totally a new experience really far from another titles.


Way way way better then that **** Last of Us 2 game! In this game you don’t have characters we love get killed in a pathetic way. In this game we don’t have to play as the person who killed our favourite character. In this game we actually have a good story! I can go on and on but just buy the game it’s way better then the **** of Us 2!
Это ведьмак из мира шутеров. И это определенно 12/10, больше чем игра года, шедевр этого поколения.
Beautiful, historical fiction, action adventure game that paints a vivid image of bravery and swashbuckling adventure against a Samurai backdrop. Devoid of trite, gimmicky, pop politics and shallow, pandering drivel, Ghost of Tsushima is an entertaining adventure set against the idealized, cinematic, world of the Samurai.
This game is a masterpiece, technically very good, the story is great and the most important thing is a very FUN GAME. GOTY 2020 Graphics 9/10 History 10/10 Gameplay 9/10
This game waaaaayyy better than the last of us prt 2 Neil drunkman and his team got their heads up their a**s. Ghost of Tsushima is a 10 out of 10 Game of the Year in 2020 and suckerpunch deserves it.
So far from what I've played, the game is pretty solid. The aesthetic of the world can often detract from the usual open world game tropes. The game is at its best when you master parrying, combat is smooth and brutal. This, paired with the serene soundtrack, is the complete satisfaction. But I find myself just wandering the world and using the game's photo mode, which is the best I've seen in a game. Although the combat and setting is an incredible side of the game, the lack of innovative missions and the generic open world gameplay weighs the game down a little.
Since Tenchu this is the best samurai/ninja game for me. The sight is perhaps the most beautiful in this generation, technically is alright, the combats are okay and the stealth kills are good, I reckon lot of bugs will be fixed soon with a patch. I'm not an open world fan at all, so I found this game sometimes repetitive & unanimous too. I think Last of Us 2 is definetely better but I'm satisfied with Tsushima because I got what I expected.
This is the samurai game I waited for and it didn’t disappoint. I thought having no mini nap would be a game breaker but this surpassed my expectations. This is the game of the year.
Really good game,good graphics nice Japanese setting,nice difficulty ,ofc has is downsides but no game is perfect but really happy with the work sucker punch as made
I can confirm my self that this is is great, that and it is too dang big I still lost in Tsushima although I’m still wondering why I can’t reach the northern part of the island. The gameplay is spectacular, difficult but spectacular.


Good game, really good game. This game has interesting story, it is simple but one that Involves. There’re interesting mechanics. One of them is playing the flute. Also in the game gorgeous landscapes. I like playing this game. Also, the game has a very cool antagonist, who catches from the first minutes when he appears.
This is absolutely gorgeous even on standard PS4. And the game-play is great like a bridge between hack and slash and Dark Souls. Play it on hard, its challenging but not impossible ... bottom line its a great game.


Una maravilla de juego sin duda alguna, sus gráficos, iluminación, ambiente, musica esta hecha de una manera que primera vista quedas encantado. Magnífico cierre de generación por parte de Sony
I played it for 20 hours, the plot was banal nationalism, resisting aggression, and I really didn't like the world the film created. The game looks like Ubisoft's assassin creed. Yes, it's so similar. The rhythm of character interaction and investigation guidance is also like assassin creed, but the game does not have the quality of the latest assassin creed. fighter image is preset by the system. When you start playing, such as archery and horse riding, it has a new feeling, but it will be repeated in the development,,In terms of graphics, it is not as strongly recommended as the latest assassin creed!ut its photo mode is still good, will give people the illusion, strongly not recommended!I think the reasonable score should be 6-7, which is a reasonable score,Excessive media hype,
Uno de los posibles gotys del año, muchísimo mejor q tlou2 bajo mi punto de vista. El apartado técnico es espectacular, te recuerda a la Japón de aquella época en todo momento y la música en combates es buenísima. Llevo unas 5 horas y creo que me quedará bastante mas
Such a refreshing experience after playing that atrocity of a game by Naughty dog. GOT is pure gold in its deliverance and has EVERYTHING that a game should be creating the immersion of being a Samurai in a classic movie experience. Best game of the year so far and wipes all the previous games of 2020 off the table, this is a well needed SUCKER PUNCH to the woke mob and woke game writers showing them that we dont want or need them in this world anymore. Yyyyeaahh boyyyy!

Another disappointing exclusive. They combat and play style is unoriginal, repetitive and just plain boring. It's like a lidl sekiro. And the story is mediocre at best. Throughout the game it suffers heavy from fps drops, often looking sub 25. Its quite jarring and hard on the eyes. Never again will I buy into the hype and preorder anything.
I'm finding it's incredibly easy to invest my time and interest into this world. The characters, environment, music have all hit amazing strides with presentation. The only negative aspects are NPCs side characters that don't emote well during conversation. My only contention that's preventing a ten.

Great Game. With all the Stealth Mechanics it gave me a Assassins Creed vibe. The Game looks great and the combat mechanics are relatively easy to master
Hasta el momento un excelente juego. Gráficos espectaculares, el mundo de este juego y su arte es una completa maravilla. Jugabilidad a veces un tanto monótona, pero es disfrutable.
После первых 10 часов игры, надоедает абсолютно все. Сначала интересно, потом сидишь и смотришь на не очень хорошую графику, на бесконечно и эпилептически летающее все и становится грустно. Хотя, если бы этого не сделали, то смотрелось бы все совсем грустно Камера, во время битв в городах, ведёт себя отвратительно. В общем и целом, игра хорошая. Но быстро надоедает.
Great game, graphics are nice, animations are a meh and the storyline/setting of the game is a bit boring in my opinion. It is a really generic bland game though. After you've beaten it there is not much to do and you can safely say you'll never touch it again. Cutscenes are really boring they didn't interest me in any slight way. Overall a pretty good game 7.4/10
I must say right away - the gameplay is mediocre. Standard Ubisoft with towers. But the atmosphere is 10 out of 10. A beautiful and juicy picture. The plot is in the style of samurai films of old japan ... I really liked the game and deserves its assessment.
With a stunning design, art, script and deep character development, Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing opportunity to live and play as the anime samurai character you dreamed as a child. Samurai X, ninja scrolls, samurai champloo are lived first hand while you explore the Akira Kurosawa character development, writing style while you explore a (some times over idealized) side of Japanese culture and history in a fictional historic novel. A balanced experience in the island of Tsushima, exploitation, fighting, discovering and even haiku writing leads to hours of joy. The photo mode is a mini game itself and I let you explore the visual part of the game and the sound score and audio design complete the stunning adventure in feudal Japan. (English is my second language, sorry for any mistake)
Have you guys played AssAss Creed before? Well that's pretty much exactly what this game is except it features samurai. Combat is really fun until you realize that is just revolves around parrying and mashing the triangle button. Seriously, it's laughably easy even on the hardest difficulty. Story is pretty weak, predictable, and boring. And since it's an open world game, it's filled with tons of trailing missions and bandits camps, in case you weren't already sick of them. Still, it's a gorgeous world with some nice diagetic exploration, and the combat is fun for a bit, just too shallow.
This game is like Assassin's Creed Origins' Japan version. -Basic and bad story writing -Good battle mechanics but if you want the cut the enemies,this won't happening. -Huge and empty open world
If someone decides to play this game ONLY because he/she sees this 9.3 user score is gonna be VERY disappointed lol. Environment and landscapes are the only pros, the rest is all mediocre, from the combat to the story. The game is often buggy, enemy NPC are really dumb, stealth system is 3/10, i was expecting a lot more from this game, given all the hype
Hello people, 1st this really worth a play, it's pleasant to explore and play. This game have really nice graphics, some strange render with light sometimes, but nothing bad at all. There a lots of really cool things when you explore. The main problem is the combat mechanism, the system is based on reality and 2 or 3 hit means dead.. It's not a problem, with good timings, it's enjoyable a lots to attack then defend counter.. The problem is from the number of attack type, only 3 or 4 attack possible, it would be much better with 10 or 15 attacks types like side fronts cutting heads ect, all this really miss on the game and that make all combat repetitive. I think, dev doesn't got time to really finish all aspects of the game, that what i can taste/sense when i play, it could be really better.. Anyway, this is still really enjoyable and exploring, stories is good to play, no worries. But something miss to be perfect. At 40 $ is the good price. We must be more patient and give more time to developers to finish their games, stop only counting on money.. That sad.
Great game. Very beautiful. Really highlights what the PS4 can do and makes me excited for what the PS5 will be capable of. The only issue I have with the game is the camera when fighting multiple enemies. A lock on system would have been nice.
Awesome japanese atmosphere, stunning views and amazing gameplay - the main reasons not to miss this game. Only minuses i found so far are awful camera and missing camera target on enemy.
Beautiful, fun, tense and well written in my opinion. Played for 8 hours straight and didn’t get bored at all. Exploration is rewarding, the map is huge and every random encounter you come across gives you multiple paths of achieving completion. Fighting gave me a few issues at times where I would swing at an enemy but would go off to their sides instead. Not like they dodged, more like Jin just closed his eyes for a second. Other than that, it’s the best game of 2020 so far.
Ever since I was a kid and got into video games I always dreamt of an open world samurai and this is on point. Being into samurai films and being able to walk round and just zatoichi the f out of mongols under command of Genghis Khan's grandson is beyond belief and the visuals on par with rdr 2 and Lou 2 is amazing with the Japanese scenery.
Bloody amazing game and instant GOTY for me so far (still playing it). Actually this is one of the best game i have played in years. And YES it will fix your taste after tlou 2 garbage. Pros + great combat thats easy to learn but hard to master + amazing graphic and visuals + great story and characters + huge respect for japanese culture and history (game is not really trying to be 100 % accurate but you can feel devs passion and respect) + some cool new mechanics + game is nothing like generic ubisoft AC games and actually has own soul, style and feeling + music is masterpiece + perfect japanese VA + japanese setting without big swords and monsters Cons - few small bugs that will most likely be soon fixed - lip sync made for english VA Buy the game, its really great
I'm absolutely blown away by this world... I don't think I've ever used photomode as much in a game as I did in the first day of playing this astounding game. The Combat is also amazing and the stories they have to tell are mysterious and amazing!

The game is what any Samurai movie fan would want to play. Gourgeous scenery, challenging and diverse gameplay. The idea of a samurai game without monsters and crazy miths.
esperava por um jogo perfeito assim desde metal gear 3, e finalmente chegou, um marco que define a transição de geração, o ponto alto em maestria unificadora de estória e jogo.




great game, have a lot of fun playing it. love it that you have the choice between stealth and more action oriented combat all the time, the stand offs never getting old. world is beautiful, music is great - love this game, thank you SP!!


Probably one of my favorite games of all time. The color palette, the music is so serene. Even the controls feel peaceful. A quick swipe on the touchpad will sheath your sword after an intense engagement. At first I was upset because I thought you would upgrade clothing and it would permanently change their appearance but I was wrong. You can revert to the level 1 version of all clothing and armor and can change the colors of it. I will put this on my list of favorites games next to Rdr2 and Kotor 1 and 2.

I loved! this game is incredibly good, and more if you put it on maximum difficulty. Graphics and an excellent soundtrack. The exploration is the best! Something I hated about Zelda botw is the exploring, no good weapons, the world its so empty, and there are no secrets, instead the open world of Ghost of tsushima is majestic!

Outro ótimo jogo exclusivo, gameplay ótima, gráficos lindos, não tive praticamente nenhum bug, junto com the last of us, esse é um dos melhores jogos do ano, até agora


An absolute masterpiece on the level of Witcher 3 and Breath of the Wild. It's very clear that Sucker Punch frequently used the word "fun" during development! And if you think there might be some kind of mishandling of Japanese culture, or even some kind of agenda, please direct your attention to the perfect 40 score from Japanese review site Famitsu.

It’s a good game. No way around that. The graphics are top notch. The environment is beautiful. The story itself is about average, but it’s a fresh take on 13th century Japan that we don’t get to see often, which makes it more appealing in my opinion. The side quests are the enjoyable so far though. The combat is good, but a little clunky. Nothing really innovative. Same goes for the stealth mechanics. For me there are two big downsides. The first being the camera positioning during combat. You have to control it with the right thumbstick instead of auto locking on enemies. It has caused me to take damage I otherwise wouldn’t have because of an enemy I couldn’t see off to the side or behind me. I’m actually a fan of games without “auto-locking”, but others have implemented it far better. The second issue is the touchpad controls, which can cause you to “emote”. There have been too many times where I have randomly started paying respects to random objects and people. The worst is when a mongol is in mid swing and all of the sudden you place your hands together and bow to him haha. Not so much the games fault, but rather my big fingers. I still wish there was an option to disable it. The controller might not like my big fingers, but in other aspects of life they have come in handy so I guess I’ll let it slide
Posiblemente el juego de mundo abierto con los mejores escenarios, con unos contrastes, unas partículas y vida como jamas haya visto. Sin ser tope gráfico, demuestra como aún después de 7 años una consola puede ofrecer mucho de si misma. Combate: Al principio es simple, pero con el progreso de nuestro samurai desbloquearemos 4 posturas de combate, cada una especializada en un conjunto de enemigos. Estas posturas tendrán su propio árbol de habilidades, como así también tendremos un árbol tanto para el camino del samurai como para el camino del shinobi. En este apartado me gustaría añadir que nuestra Leyenda crecerá en la Isla conforme vayamos liberando pueblos, ayudando a los ciudadanos, y derrotando jefes y elites mongoles. Banda Sonora: Es sencillamente hermosa, dándole ese toque japones a cada rincón de la Isla de Tsushima. Mérito a parte, se agradece que a pesar de ser un estudio occidental se hayan tomado el trabajo de doblar el juego en japonés y en latino. Historia: Esta muy bien llevada, poniéndonos en la piel de Jin Sakai, uno de los últimos Samurais sobrevivientes a la invasión Mongola. Nuestro viaje constará en reunir fuerzas aliadas en toda la isla para lograr expulsar a los invasores de la isla. En nuestro viaje tendremos 24 misiones principales, 7 cadenas de misiones con relatos de Leyendas del floklore japones muy bien elaboradas y con la obtención de habilidades únicas y poderosas, y 60 misiones secundarias ( de las cuales al menos un tercio de ellas son muy divertidas y épicas). Exploracion: Como ocurrió con Zelda BoTW, el juego nos invita a perdernos por la isla y aprovechar esa inmersión de casi no tener interfaz ni indicadores en pantalla. Guiándonos por el viento y los animales que nos llevaran siempre a coleccionables o templos. Sin duda un placer ver un juego que no te lleva de la mano en todo momento, y te permite que tomes tu propio rumbo para recuperar tu tierra natal. La única critica negativa que podría considerar en el título, es que al no contar con una fijación de objetivo puede haber momentos al comienzo del juego que en combates con un grupo de enemigos en el que la cámara nos lleve una mala pasada. Para los que no suelan usar esta función en otros juegos no tendrán problemas, y los que si al cabo de unas horas de combates uno ya domina ese aspecto. Resumen: Sin duda un Must Have de esta generación y un gran broche de oro para Playstation 4 como último exclusivo de la consola. 9.5/10
Awesome game. a masterpiece...............GOD GAME..............!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!
Great history ,Amazing graphics and a wonderfull combat , 10/10 for sure one of the best games in the year
This adventure (it is not doing it justice calling GoT a game), was finally what I needed as a history buff and especially of Japan's history. My first impression when game was revealed was of disbelief as in,not another AC game. It is far from it. The little "parkour" it has is implemented nicely. Parkour puzzles are simple but still can make you wander around. Combat is the highlight. Knowing about the ghost action, as mentioned in the beginning I was again in disbelief, another boring stealth mechanic. But really there is a ton of times when as a stand out samurai I would go to stealth to dwindle the numbers first as until you progress far enough into better technique and tools its suicide storming the gates of mongol camps. The game naturally guides you from honorable combat to the dishonorable as a way of the warrior. Be like water,flow . I have yet moooore to play still in act 1.But was playing almost all side missions and it doesn't feel like a grind and I hate grind in games. That is, if you can find these side missions and you can't unless you explore. Now we come to exploring. You can remove even the standard minimal hud and you won't be stucked searching. The wind and the animals are there to help you and to enjoy in the esthetic peaceful countryside of Tsushima. I have very little almost to none to complain about the game except I want it never to end. Kurosawa mode is stunning and sounds are even more pronounced like the wind in all his movies. The only reason I stopped using Kurosawa mode is that I don't have high end TV or monitor and it is difficult for me to not miss details in the game.


I love samurai movies, especially old ones, and OMG this game captures that atmosphere exactly, sure there is some bugs about Npc but can be patched. buy it right now
I just like everything about this game. It's so good. Even thought it has a few flaws like cutsences for example. But every game has some flaws. Keep up the good work Sucker punch. Hope the game gets a dlc or it becomes a franchise.
This game is bloody brilliant. Great story, combat, visuals and exploration. Much more fun, nuanced and interesting than Last of Us 2. Their critic metacritic scores should be swapped with each other.

It trully is a good game, one of the most beautiful scenarios I've ever played through, loved the main story and the gameplay is addictive! Sadly there's stuff we can't simply cover our eyes to... Like the huge amount of glitches and bugs that shouldn't be on a AAA game and how the side quests turn out to be so repetitive. I've achieved the platinum trophy, but it turned out really boring after a few side quests!
For you TL;DR people: The Good: - Graphics - Sound (both music, sound effects and ambient) - Deep gameplay mechanics - Large open world that feels immersive - A revenge story done RIGHT - Interweaving stories which feed and contribute into the main plot of the story - Almost no load times even during fast travel (maybe 1-2 seconds tops) - PHOTO MODE! The Bad: - computer AI can be a bit predictable at times - Like most open world games, some NPCs can feel a bit robotic - Combat learning curve can be a bit steep, especially as you unlock more advanced skills In-depth Review: I've been waiting for a Samurai game like this for a long, long time. Feeling like I'm in a movie, fighting as a samurai in feudal Japan. From the moment the game begins to the opening title card, you immediately feel like you're sitting front row, directing and starring in that samurai movie. I LOVE what SuckerPunch developed with Ghost of Tsushima and encourage everyone to give it a try. From swordplay to archery; from main story to side quests, everything and I mean everything feels organic and developed with purpose. SuckerPunch actually drew out one of Japan's longest tradition, being one with nature, and included it in the game. Be it following Foxes to shrines, golden birds to points of interest or utilizing the wind to direct you to your next objective, nothing is gone to waste here. Even side stories, though not "essential," all contribute to the desperation the people of Tsushima feel because of the mongol invasion. That isn't to say things are perfect, which is why I did knock 1 point off my score. For one, NPCs can break that immersion due to their AI driven mechanics. Be it walking that pre-programmed line from point A to point B, completely forgetting I tried to raid their base a minute after raining arrows on my position, or just simply repeating the same dialog over and over until I select them, these small cracks in the pristine polish are often enough to remind you it's a game until the next scene pops up or you begin your next objective. Speaking of objectives, I've been dubbing each "mission" an episode in a larger running TV series because that's exactly what it feels like. Many characters have multiple "chapters" in their tale which segways from Jin's main mission; yet, they all tie together through the side characters. Not to mention all the activities such as collectables, legacy points, skill tree points, and unlocking ghost skills will easily keep you busy when you're not obsessed with Photo Mode or admiring the landscape. Overall, this game is a real treat. It took a similar premise like what The Last of Us Part 2 had, and did it RIGHT! It managed to show all sides of revenge, vengeance, retaliation, and the internal struggle between being brought up believing in a code of honor; and what you turn into once you let go of those morals. If The Last of Us Part 2 left an awful taste in your mouth, Ghost of Tsushima is a bottle of Sake waiting to wash that taste away. And, it tastes like of Game of the Year!
Неплохая игра в открытом мире, просто шикарное окружение, если бы ещё фпс на обычной пс4 не падал цены бы ей небыло, но это уже слабость железа

Este juego desde el inicio te sumerge en ese mundo y en su historia. Su apartado artístico y su banda sonora son brutales. Es el mundo abierto más bonito de esta generación. Invita a explorarlo al máximo y las misiones secundarias se dan de manera natural. Solo crítico algunos rostros de npc que son algo toscos y poco naturales, pero es un excelente videojuego. Una gran sorpresa!


Game can be a little awkward and slow at first because there's so much to unlock, but better for a while. After clearing the first part of the island and it's side missions and main missions it goes downhill. What let's it's down is its lacks of animations, no damage visuals, pointless moves to unlock that are cool looking but do nothing but slow you down and leave you open to be attacked. By the end of the first Act it's the usual suspects of enemies, even more archers, grenade enemies and meat shields with guns. Yeah that's right, guns. First part of the game is great but then it gets ****
This game is beyond amazing. Never heard of this game before until launch day when the advertising and people started posting on Facebook excited for this game. The swordplay is fantastic and I love the leveling up system for armor, weapons, stances, and equipment. The graphics is great. I love the story the samurai. Breaking traditions to win a war.
Recomend playing with surround sound or sound bar..im extremely picky with games the older km getting and finally a game that has captured my attention. Best game I've played in years. Definitely a masterpiece. Suckerpunch stays true to its reputation. Im in love with this game ❤

Отличная игра. Смотрел обзоры нескольких блогеров, некоторые из них поливали дерьмом эту игру, но мне она очень зашла.
The games was amazing and honestly I don’t know why and who gave it less than 9 But for me I love it so much and i can say that game have legendary music and photomode and also stories and game play The only negative and not negative for me is lock on .. when you attacking the mongols places and when they attacking you as group here you can’t select on of them .. you should make your front on the enemy so you can damage him For me this is reality Thanks for sucker punch for this great game
Beautifully crafted world with all respect to Japanese culture. Gameplay feels like a true adventure and world exploration. Addictive and evolving combat, absolutely amazing graphics and immersive story. What else can I say - this is exactly what I'm looking for in games. Great job, Sucker Punch!

Хорошая игра кто бы что не говорил! Мало игр про японию и таких красивых.Спасибо за игру)


Great game, played about a half of it. Atmosphere, battlesys, exploring, right theme of justice, all this aspects perfectly fits me. Worth buying! Doumo arigatou gozaimasu Sucker Punch!

One of the greatest games of all time, play in Japanese with English subtitles on hard (If you speak English) for full realism, absolutely should be GOTY, ignore the average "Critic" reviews, they're all just shilling for TLOU 2 giving GOT low/average scores to boost TLOU 2 scores, I have played both and Ghost of Tsushima dunks on The Last of Us 2. Do yourself a favor and buy this game. 10/10
a great story with great gameplay this is the best open world game in pa4 this game is better than Tlou 2 i think this is the best samurai game in the history the photomode in this game is better than Tlou 2 story and gameplay

Awesome graphic, amazing combat system, the open world is magical, it let you search and do side quest more than the stoey you play, this game stole my heart, a master piece For me it GOFY Thanks Suker punch
По мне игра 10 из 10, но иногда есть косяки с камерой, во время боя, и какая нибудь стена или дерево закрывает тебе весь обзор! Про боёвку, один дурачок блогер сказал что это рутина, но по мне это лучшее что я видел на сегодняшний день! Даже последний God of War, опустился для меня на строчку вниз! Открыв все стойки и удары, я плюнул на сюжет, и пошёл зачищать всю карту, кстати на сегодня я наиграл 30 часов, и прошёл менее половины сюжета, вот так понравилась боевая система! Ну а в остальном всё отлично, если есть какие то мелкие баги, а не сегодня мне таких попалось штуки 3-4, думая всё исправят патчами! Спасибо разработчикам! Игру советую всем!!!
A real masterpiece! The graphic is so beautiful and the colors are perfect. The Gameplay is great, too. Ghost of Tsushima is a full openworld, not just at the beginning like TLOUP2! But the best on the game is the Story ! It doesn't give you a PTSD syndrome like Last of Us 2!
I love this game! This is one of the best samurai games I have ever experienced and one of the open-world games that I can play side quests without getting bored. This is one of the games that makes me want to go all over the map, do every task.

Started it day one, the minute it downloaded I couldn't put it down it's such a beautiful and more importantly a fun game. The side quests are woven into tales and it shows that thought was put into them. The gameplay is amazing, the fighting feels intense and real and the standoffs are so cinematic and a little intimidating it's such a good touch. I will say the framework at times will bug out slightly but that's an easy enough patch. The story is entertaining not agenda based so its feels like an escape from real world politics which is refreshing. It's a masterpiece and game of the year worthy. But we know who the media is giving that to unfortunately . This is a day one buy
Beautiful game, world design very well reflects the atmosphere of feudal Japan. The music gives an extraordinary effect - the whole thing looks like Kurosawa's Seven Samurai. Some people compare this game to Assassin's Creed - it's something else. The story may not be of the highest caliber, but a well-balanced one allows you to feel the atmosphere of the samurai world.


A game that is made for the pleasure of the gamers who pay the money to play and not for the journalists who are paid to play games who think of themselves the artistic gate keepers for us proletarians. That said, Ghost of Tsushima is an astonishing piece of art of a game that carries the player through its amazing colorful scenery with the rhythm of poetic melodies. it has been a damn while that I had not been hooked to a game like this and enjoyed every single turn of its open world. Ghost of Tsushima succeeds in my opinion to distinguish itself from what the first glimpses might make it look like, a cross over between AC, Far cry, and the witcher and even RDR2. It succeeds to have an identity of itself. I caught myself so often slowing down when riding the horse to admire the scenery take snap shots or to follow a fox or a golden bird to some hidden artifact or upgrade which come in a shape of a thermal bath or a challenge of cutting a pile of bamboos in a timely manner. The side missions are so good that they get you invested in them as if you are playing the main missions you want to see them through and not to get rid of them quickly. Boredom is not in this games dictionary. As a conclusion for my non spoil review, I would thank Sucker Punch for putting the hard work in it and not disappointing me and I believe the gamers community from what I read in the feed backs. You did it for us the gamers not for politics not for journalists and for that you deserve my sincere respect.
nothing negative i can say about this game... its a masterpiece by all forms.. SP i love you from the bottom of my heart .. this game is very addictive ...
For a long time I wanted a grounded samurai game and finally Sucker Punch gave such a game. Yeah the game has rough edges but as a whole package it's a dream come true for me. The Island of Tsushima is mesmerizing. It made me really want to visit the real Island one day.
O melhor jogo de samurai que já joguei, parabéns a sucker punch por criar uma nova IP com mecânicas muito bem aplicadas e um jogo extremamente lindo, digno de fim de geração, história muito boa e side quests muito interessantes mesmo tendo algumas que se repetem um pouco, mas isso não atrapalha a experiência em momento algum.
I had to create an account just to say, that if you are here wondering if you should buy this game, then YES. Big open world to explore, the devs have done everything to make exploration and collecting stuff user friendly, fast travel all over the place, and everything looks amazing. Great story aswell. I haven't been this happy playing a story since RDR 2! Ghost of Tsushima is a must have :)

The best game about samurais ever. I like everything in this game. Atmosphere, music, characters, gameplay, realistic graphic. Developers , you’ve got a big respect from me!

This game is stunning and beautiful, especially with the ever present particle effects of leaves, bugs, birds, and ash. The gameplay is incredibly fun and you need to learn to switch between stances to make it easier on yourself. Stealth is kind of unrealistic with the Mongols peripheral vision, but its still fun. Jin is a good main character and the supporting characters are just as good, if not better than him. The main story isn't anything super revolutionary, but its enjoyable and entertaining. Between combat, there are small moments of rest, which include writing a haiku or cutting some bamboo. There are some bugs though, sometimes when you jump off a cliff towards a rock, you might just slide down the whole thing. None of the small bugs I've encountered are gamebreaking and honestly I was laughing the whole time Jin slid down that cliff
This put Sucker Punch into the elite studio with premier AAA games. Mark my word, it will post one of the best user review in the entire website. Job will done.
You should not miss this gem. The game is all about having fun. Its a really good game with an awesome story and likeable characters. The environment is gorgeous to say the least. 10/10 masterpiece, a must play before the nextgen consoles come out. Buy it now!
Best story best gamepkay ever Best graphic Thanks for this game the legend game on ps4
Very cinematic and beautful. The story is engaging with flash backs to create a history for the character so he is nore believable and you can relate to him . Its not about being historically accurate. Its about entertaiment and grasping the feel and essence of that period of being a samurai. Video games are about immersion and playability. This is how you make a game the total opposite of TLOU 2. Game of the year 2020.
The best in the genre. Size of the world is just about right, not too bloated and copypaste-ish like last assassins' ones. Variety of biomes, aesthetic, combat. Everything is almost perfect. Except stealth, stealth is meh.
I really couldn’t care less about Japanese/Samurai culture, I’ve just never been into it, and definitely thought I would have preferred something like Red Dead 2. However, this game is shaping up to be one of my favorites of all time. I’m only about halfway done, but I can assure that this game is just insanely good. The combat is unique and the stand-off mechanic is legendary. The music is calming and the game looks masterful. I have over 25 screenshots saved cause it’s just that damn pretty. Every frame is a painting. Above all, it’s just a fun game. Enjoyable, yet fufilling and somewhat new as well. I’m gonna be honest, there’s not a ton of unique features in this game, but my enjoyment is so high that I really don’t care. There’s a lot of open world games just on PS4 (Horizion, Spiderman, RDR2, this game), but they all have vastly different settings (Post-apocalypse, New York, Wild West, Japan) to the point where they’re all worth playing. This is probably one of the best of those games and wouldn’t be surprised if it becomes a classic.

This game is a dream come true, it provides a amazing story and tons of side mission. The combat is good and the mythic techniques are fun to use. The game has a lot of side content which then allows the player to build up their legend to earn exciting rewards. Overall I really enjoyed playing this game and I hope it wins GOTY because it deserves it with all the hard work that has been put in this game.
Ghost of Tsushima has one of the most beautiful landscapes in all of open world gaming. Combined with a fun yet challenging combat which almost never gets old, interesting characters and intriguing side quests mixed in with the well game main story makes this world shine among others.
Отличная игра! Очень выгодно отличается от высера в виде the last of us,и общая оценка пользователей подтверждает мои слова. Забавно,что в этот раз журналюгам,походу,не занесли) Всем играть!
This game is pure perfection and shows that Sucker Punch respects the lore and history of Japan. No forced politics and not forcing you to play as unwanted character who is filled with roids. Unlike other developers that throw shade and censor the fan base for not liking their game, Sucker Punch respects the gamers with Ghost of Tsushima. THIS is the swan song to end the PS4 era. NOT The Last of Us 2. THIS is THE game where you should spend your cold, hard cash. You WON'T be disappointing with this brave and STUNNING game!


There are minor bugs but nothing game gamebreaking... Otherwise really compelling story, pretty great gameplay (although I wish it had a lock-on system), the environment and landscapes are very detailed and beautiful. Overall a great game and instant classic! This game is for ps4 what Okami was for ps2.

Buen Juego bastante divertido pero nada que no se muestre en Horizon, farcry e incluso sekiro aaunque este ultimo no tanto. Excelentes graficas asi como un buen apartado de misiones secundarias pero con una muy mala inteligencia artificial que te permite matar uno a uno a los adversarios y el sigilo es de lo mas regular.

I am enjoying this game! The way they show the character change with the protagonist is actually done well in my opinion. They do explain why he acts stoic and somewhat "emotionless" through showing and some telling of his past. And of course the game is just beautiful!! There is even an option to make it look like the Samurai movies of old and while you lose the colors of the world, it still maintains an artistic style. So far I just spend the time free roaming and discovering what the world has to offer and discover quests wherever the wind takes me and find that the developers trust the intelligence of the players to not include a map while you play and only have a map in the pause menu and do trust that you the player will not only be able to find your objective with the wind, but also want you to explore this beautiful island that is being ravaged by war and needs someone to help fight off the occupying force. Now there are small glitches I've encountered, because literally every video game is going to have glitches because nothing is perfect. But it shouldn't be all about perfection. You can strive for it, but at the end of the day can you the player have fun? And I think anyone who plays this game is going to have a really fun, enjoyable time.



Great game. A gamers game. A game that knows its a game and isnt trying too hard to be an artistic cinematic culture commentary social political tackling game. Its has a couple of flaws, the story isnt that great (its fine), the characters are a bit dry. But... people should play this game. Its a game worth supporting.
Undoubtly one of best RPGs I ever have played. Ghost of Tsushima is a perfect example of “how to make an open world action/RPG “ so Guys at ubisoft should play and finish this game one by one to learn how make a awsome game! Ghost of Tsushima is peice of pure art with challenging and deep gameplay and combat system. Musics are special and graphics are stunnig but I think technical graphics are lowered in compare of old trailer. Maybe I felt it wrong and maybe its bkz of beauty of last of us part 2! All and all ghost of tsushima is probably my goty of 2020 but I still couldn’t finish the game! So lets see!
Let me start by saying no game is perfect. With that, I'm giving ghost of tsushima a 10 because it exceeded my expectations and executes well, everything it set out to achieve. Combat is first and foremost exactly what I wanted and more, to feel like a one man army legendary samurai. Next, the soundtrack alone makes the game praiseworthy, as it sets the tone for each peaceful to intense swordclashing moment with prime accuracy. My highest praise for the game, however, stands with the artistry and environment of the island. The journey to every objective is heaped with breathtaking scenes, beautifully chosen colors, and the most realistically replicated sky that could be imagined. In addition, they used the environment as the guiding feature for the player, the UI is so clean, and at times, nonexistent. The world bends towards your destinations and woodland critters emerge to lead you to side secrets and collectibles a very refreshing design choice.This is complimented by an excellent photo mode packed with features to add to your captures. My only real complaint for the game is that the writing is overall stiff, and, Jin could have been more interesting in this regard.

To put it short-- I haven't actually enjoyed an open-world game like this in a long time. With minimal UI, the game allows you to take in all the beauty Sucker Punch put into this game. The Japanese voice acting is incredible and deserves high praise. The game progresses you at just the right pace and gives a variety of styles to play.
GOTY 2020 buy it everyone!!!!! The amazing game style combat was phenomenal, story was great plus there s no agenda been pushed in the game so fa I enjoyed hell out of it
great everything had a great story very good mechanics and didn't bring real life problems into the game like "last of us 2" but i love it and would play the game over and over
i havnt finished the game yet but the game is a masterpiece!the only (kinda) downside is the story.i havnt finished it yet but for now the story is boring and simple.god i cannot belive hoe would it feel if the ending is great.so the gameplay is one of the best and makes you want to rush everyone everywhere cuz its facinating!physics and tactics and moves are awesome! the graphic is beautiful but its not that great in night time
Uno de los mejores juegos de está ultima generación, no cómo el the las of Us una completa basura. excelente historia y ambientación de este juego me encantó buen cierre de de parte de Sony con esta joyita.
Fantastic game exploring lore we don't see much of . In terms of feudal Japan it is always ficti9nal with fantasy involved. This follow true events and there is no fantasy in terms of monsters etc. Graphics are absolutely stunning. Rivals top PC hardware ( I kept my ps4 for games like this). Start is not anything out of this world but holds true to itself and in enjoyable. Exloration ....you have an entire island to get lost in. IN MY TOP 10 GAMES OF ALL TIME.
The game is graphically beautiful and the story is amazing. The gameplay is fun to master and extremely rewarding, and the game world is fascinating to explore. As a Japanese person, I love that this game draws inspiration from Japanese tradition, history and mythology. This game would earn my vote for Game of the Year.
Best open world game for 2k20, is a must play, You don't get bored exploring every corner of Tsushima Island, the fight is epic, every moment I spent in the games was fun, the improvement and the story of Jin is just great, there are a lot of side quest, the game is not repetitive, I really recommend it to all those who love the open world and exploration no regrets.
This game is unbelievable. The graphics, The story, The gameplay. I highly recommend for all PS Players. SuckerPunch did an amazing job combining the story and gameplay so effortlessly. The way they did not only Japanese culture but Samurai Culture is just beautiful. If you are not playing Ghost of Tsushima than you are missing out on an awesome experience. 10/10 for me. I predict game of the month and hopefully game of the year.

This game was visually outstanding. The music in the game war perfect and the fight mechanics were nice to. Hours and hours of fun. A definite buy if your haven't yet.
Amazing game. Must play! It has a unique, and underused setting, and the art direction makes it the best looking game of this generation. The grass and leaves and wind give a movement and life to every moment which has not been seen before on playstation. The acting and facial animations are done well and the antagonists are interesting. The music is masterfully done, with some iconic pieces along with some really pleasant background music. The open world gameplay, a much loved genre, has been improved on in almost everyway. A cinematic and compelling main story, is supplemented with interesting and diverse side missions. On top of that, the open world staple 'copy and paste' missions, have nice gimics e.g. the fox, and are varied enough for them to soften any 'grind' these missions usually have. The combat is challenging and detailed, mixing assassins creed style stealth, with God of War level fights. Any fan of Tenchu will undoubtedly want to play this, and anybody who wants to feel like a strong hero can't go wrong with this game (even while retaining the challenging gameplay). This is a wonderful game, which has set the bar higher for open world games. Not only is it great, but the fact his is the new gold standard means I cannot help but give this game a 10/10. I look forward to playing Ghosts of Tsushima on the PS5, and also the sequels, which I hope will be made for decades to come.
Menudo juegazo muy buena jugabilidad,excelente ambientación y excelente ambientación es juego se siente como dark souls, assasin s creed y uncharted a la vez muy buen juego la verdad el mejor juego del año hasta ahora y la duración perfecta el juego te da una sensación muy buena cuando se escucha el viento y mapa muy vivo y esta muy bueno de seguir al viento para saber donde ir. Excelente cierre de exclusivos en ps4 muy bueno la verda el juego lo puntuo como 10.
i have no words.. this game deserves to be 100 outta 100 there is not a single flaw that would dissrupt my immersion and joy in this awesome journey that Jin Sakai embarks on... thank you sucker punch... you totally nailed it... and i have to thank you...

In my 3 decades of playing video games, this is the first game that gave me goosebumps! Epic field intro! I was so taken away, I almost dropped my controller mid play! Sucker Punch, you're the best thing this 2020! Absolute GOTY!

Probably the most offensively beautiful thing I've ever seen, and I'm married to a model
Amazing game, story, graphics !!! Combat very satisfying. Recomend to explore the world, all the side quest are fantastic and have breathtaking stories !!



Another beautiful PS exclusive, beautiful visuals with a strong story, voice acting and an outstanding soundtrack. The world is dripping with atmosphere and never lets go of your interest, although it has some basic open world tropes I think it pulls it off really great by making it feel so natural and immersive. Following a bird to a secret shrine somewhere with the wind blowing in your back makes it feel like something so fresh. The combat is really great too, tho a bit clunky sometimes but in no way frustrating in my experience, especially when you get the hang of all your moves and stances. Not much else to say then that its a masterpiece that you need to experience for yourself.

First of my family actually fought in the Battle of Bun'ei so I'm a bit biased about this game. With that said! Holy hell do I love this game! Going back to my first sentence. Growing up my father would tell me stories about the legacy of my family, how if not for our contributions and that of the many other samurai families that still mainly reside in Kyushu, that Japan might not even exist. So to see first hand a depiction of this era was just breathtaking. I actually got to get a glimpse of what it was like for my ancestors saw and felt. The game goes an amazing job of making you feel like you are fighting an uphill battle. Even though the island is naturally beautiful, scenes of death permeate the pristine landscape. An amazing duality of the beauty of our world and the macabre horrors of war. The combat is very deliberate and very gory. Your strikes feel very impactful, when you slice a person they feel it and it shows. Their comrades react accordingly, reeling in shock at their compatriot being decapitated in front of them and often stagger backward in terror. The game is just masterfully executed and is an experience from start to finish.
A perfect blend of open world, action, and stunning visuals. So well designed it just feels good to play. With enough difficulty to make it feel rewarding to master. Long story short - This good samurai game!


It’s easy to describe the gameplay loop of Tsushima: it’s Assasins Creed (the last two of the series), it will be sold as action-rpg but there’s really little to no RPG. You have skills to unblock, you run with your horse to the mission point, the mission is invariably: kill Mongolians. You have combat skills, bow, sword, and sneaking ability. There’s no equipment loot (huge bummer for me). HUGE open world map, many interest points and sub-quests to do, most of which are optional. All missions are linear with no choice or forks. In one word Assassin’s Creed. The good part is that the quest stories are usually nice (though not much variety) and the artistic direction and landscape are amazing, also some smart choices like having almost no UI and letting the environment guiding you to your mission points or secrets. The combat is well balanced, skill based and very stunty. I have to say, after the initial wow's effect i'm mildly unimpressed. I was expecting an amazing evolution of the Action genre, instead the evolution is purely graphical. The gameplay is the same i have already had for about 400 hours in t Assassin's Creed but if you like that type of game and you want more of that, this is probably as good as it gets.
Very polished. Only experienced one bug where I flew into the air during combat (ONLY ONE TIME the whole playthrough). Story is mediocre, gameplay is polished, however controls are a bit weird to begin with. There's a wide aray of skills and combat moves. Lots of side quests. Good voice acting. Almost fell a tear during one of the endings. Liked the game, but I'm not going to play it again. But I haven't played Uncharted 4 more than once either. So recommended
this game is amazing has great story and one of the most beautiful games out their the combat is brutal and staffing The stealth elements are amazing remind me of metal gear solid 5 Stealth mechanic , there is some problems like the ai is not that great most of the time you spend so much time just waiting the ai to do the right thing
This game is one of the best game of this decade. It’s a masterpiece. Wonderful country side is at it’s best. The story is more then epic. What a game!

The game has me legit feeling like a samurai in the same way RDR1 made me feel like a gunslinger. This game has unparalleled graphics and art direction, deep and meaningful dialogue and combat system that can be either Sekiro or Assassin's Creed, it flexes and shifts according to how you want to play it. Super great, but it and you won't regret it.
Sucker Punch had made a huge promise with the hype surrounding it. And it's safe to say , they've delivered it ! Remember Legend if Kage on NES system^^ ? I played that in 2005 when I was 10. And now this.....this is just a dream come true bruh
Ghost of Tsushima brings so much that it deserves to be in the same conversation with its top exclusive peers when considering that we are at the end Sony's PlayStation 4 life cycle. The game humbly introduces a graphical phenomenon that will have you at awe with its very diverse landscapes while accompanied by a fascinating soundtrack that rivals none. The ambiance does great job of reminding you that the world is very much alive; the sound of thunder as the darkness roles in along with the rain that it brings. The sound of the wildlife as you stroll through the woods, the sound of the water as you approach the beach or a waterfall and the howling winds. Story telling and side quests are submissive; granting all supporting character with a very well deserved screen time for character development in a world where everyone has a role to play. All while the game play and combat mechanics offers your more than just one way to play the game, by lending the player different skill trees to help you identify your taste of choosing in how to go about tackling your objectives. This Sucker Punch title is a true love letter delivered to Japan's Kamakura Period with absolutely no agendas to push, pull or divide the player/participant/viewer. In general, this title is well deserved title that should be found in your gaming collection. This is what a true Master Piece looks like. Ghost of Tsushima gets my vote for Game Of The Year.

An amazing game. Definitely the best ps4 exclusive this year. I love the story and the gameplay is excellent. Sometimes the graphics could have been more polished and other times they are simply breathtaking.
What a way to end the PS4 console generation!! Tbh, when I saw the 83% for the critics review portion I didn't really think that this game was going to be as mind blowing as it was. WOW was I wrong!! This will probably win GOTY imo- Let's wait until Cyberpunk tho
Just one word: PERFECT. A funny battle system, a lot of biomas, the ambiental sounds are gorgeus and a the secundary missions have a nice narrative. GOTY 2020
Honestly the best samurai and open world game since The Witcher 3. Witcher has better writing and complexity. But visuals and combat in this game are breathtaking and exceptional. Love it. Famitsu 40/40 is thought to disagree.
A truly great game, great portrayal of Japanese culture with a approachable twist. Sold Game play, beautiful open world and enough story laced through it to remind me of the best of skyrim.
I rarely give a 10 rating on any game and the last game I enjoyed this much was Nier Automata. This game has it all. Great story, great game-play, and a challenging reward and challenge system. I loved the infamous series and this game takes all the aspects I enjoyed in that series and expands dramatically upon it. Vivid, colorful, and at times beautiful graphics. The scenery, the character models, the game play are visually stunning. The soundtrack is epic, with blends of traditional Japanese instruments into electronica mixes. I enjoyed the open world dynamic immensely and continue to enjoy it as I explore and replay areas. The open world allows me to go at my own pace or side track to wherever i feel like. The combat mechanics in this game are outstanding, it is a nice blend of challenge and easy to understand. THIS game should be a "Must Play" and I think its a serious contender for Game of the Year.
A fantastic game. In particular, if you are a fan of the Tenchu games you should not miss this. It has exceeded my expectations in terms of gameplay and world building. The atmosphere is unmatched with great use of particles, lighting, and art design. The freedom to approach situations using stealth or swordplay or a combination of both is satisfying. Lots of upgrades, gadgets, and variety keep things fresh. Easily my favourite game of 2020 thus far and one of the best games on PS4.
I really love how Sucker Punch captured the essence of old Japan. This game makes me feel playing an Akira Kurosawa movie. Akira would have been proud.
A truly perfect samuri game, beautiful open world packed full of life and colour, the conflict with in jin is one felt by the player right until the final decision.


Интересная игра, хорошая атмосфера, не плохие задумки разрабов. Есть конечно свои минусы, но мне игра очень зашла.
Excellent game. This game hits everything i want from an open world game, given you like the theme. For me easily a GotY contender. What i liked - the open world: not too big, not too small, good amount to do, but not too much) - the wind / no waypoints - draw distance: for a ps4, thats more than impressive - no pop ups, you see whats coming - graphics: easily one if not the best looking ps4 game - loading screens: what loading screens? - swordfights: nioh and sekiro combined and made a bit easier - perfect for me - quests: the quests or tales tell good stories so you really enjoy doing them - itemization: you can upgrade all items, but its not like you are chasing numbers. each upgrade has a real impact - music: the soundtrack is really really amazing what i disliked - the camera is sometimes a mess - the AI of the enemies could be better



This is the type of game that buying a PS4 just to play it is a successful investment. The game is made with such detail and care. Beautiful map and scenery and fantastic characters all around. The villain is great and the story is deep and fulfilling. A must play. 10/10 the greatest sucker punch game ever.
This game is 10/10 from the graphics to the gameplay, characters, and story. I am loving every minute playing as Jin the Ghost of Tsushima. Finally, I never thought I could survive without a mini-map but they nailed it with the guiding wind. Thank you Sucker Punch, the Voice Actors, and Sony for making this game.
Definitely the greatest action/rpg/adventure/openworld game I've ever played! Great combat, amazing story, awesome soundtrack! Sucker Punch hit a home run with this game!


It's pretty much the third best Assassin's Creed game. Going from a curated masterpiece like Last of Us 2 to this generic Ubisoft-esque open world with Assassin's Creed 2 combat is pretty rough. Also not particularly a huge fan of ancient Japanese culture.
Ghost of Tsushima is the most beautiful open world game that I have ever played. The voice acting is phenomenal and the combat is so great. 10/10 would recommend to anyone.

Что же я могу сказать по поводу данной игры. Очень атмосферная, очень красивая, музыка которая иногда до мурешек. Ёлки палки! Некоторые персонажи которых ты ещё не очень хорошо знаешь а тебе уже их жалко. Можно даже описать так. Призрак Цусимы это более простая версия ведьмака 3 Дикая охота. Было бы здорово если бы разработчики выпустили в будущем какие нибудь обновления. Где врагом будет не монголы а например Англичане. В общем! Игра эта - это хорошее завершение для PS4. Если её портируют и на PS5 ЭТО Будет замечательно. А те кто специально занижают оценки данной игры что бы выставить вперёд The Lust of us 2 часть 2. Скажу коротко. Буй вам по всей морде! Не дождётесь. Эта игра уже на старте показала себя с лучшей стороны. И мы не дадим её принижать.
Do yourself a favour and get this game! I have played for days and just finished act 1. Wonder why it took me this long? Long story short this game is incredibly fun and addictive. It makes u want to explore every single corner of Tsushima and somehow doesn’t get boring at all. The wind guiding mechanic is such a genius idea tbh, it adds to the already beautiful scenery . It makes everything around me somehow feel Alive. Animals guiding you is also such a dope feature, and my absolute favourite thing about this game is the combat!! I love it I’ve missed out on so many things but I’m sure everyone else has got it covered :)
Joguei o game e quero deixar aqui minha opinião sobre o jogo, sei que é meu primeiro review, então acredito que não sou um especialista nessa área de reviews rsrs. Enfim, na minha opinião, ele atendeu todas as minhas expectativas, mesmo com pequenos bugs e algumas falhas durante o percurso eu não posso deixar de dar nota máxima para o game pois isso não influenciou em nenhum momento a minha experiência de jogo. Acho que errar sem atrapalhar a experiência do player é um tipo de maestria, e acredito que esses pequenos bugs serão corrigidos nas próximas atualizações. História: Retrata muito da cultura histórica dos samurais e do conflito em Tsushima na era feudal, coisa que não aprendemos na escola pois nosso foco é mais ocidental e história do Brasil. Além disso, realizou grandes homenagens aos samurais e ao lendário cineasta Kurosawa. Na minha opinião, creio que foi complicado para a empresa o processo de pesquisa de campo e etc, para abordar sobre um tema não ocidental de uma forma a não ofender a cultura de lá, eu achei impecável. Jogabilidade: O jogo se destaca com itens em modo geral, alguns cosméticos, outros tem suas funcionalidades ou acrescentam status, e é muito interessante o jeito de rastrear itens e eventos dentro do mapa, é um mapa com muita exploração, então tem que aproveitar o game com muitas horas. A árvore de skills e habilidades não é inovador, mas atende bem as expectativas de crescimento do guerreiro que vc se torna em tsushima, sendo possível escolher formas de atacar os oponentes, desde duelos, confrontos ou modo furtivo, esse último que achei interessante pois contrasta com a questão da honra samurai, algo que fica bem marcado no jogo. História secundária: As histórias secundárias foram realmente mais interessantes que a história principal, porém não apaga o brilho da história principal, ambas são bem trabalhadas e nas secundárias é possível conhecer mitos, acontecimentos e até alguns conflitos históricos.... recomendo muito fazê-las. Não sei se separei muito bem, mas por fim, eu acho tudo muito recompensador no jogo, no começo vai parecer que você está muito forte caso você explore tudo, porém no decorrer da história você vai ver que vai ficando mais difícil e melhorando a dificuldade. Para aventurar-se recomendo modo normal, para desafios, recomendo modo hard e para quem quiser só ver a história sem desafios, o modo fácil ta ali. é isso, game 10/10
Just epic. What a way to top off a great generation for PS4. Stunning visuals, interesting story with some great characters and excellent combat mechanics. Buy it.
I bought the game 2 days ago and cant stop playing it I think its amazing. But I would love it even more if you could get new swords and not just upgrade the one you allready have.
Played the games main story over the weekend I finished it on Sunday and still played for hours yesterday the side content is just as good as the Jin's story and the main missions and complements the main content perfectly. Furthermore the game is beautiful and the lack of HUD makes the game even more immersing a must play for anyone down the line wandering weather its worth the buy.
Ghost of Tsushima is everything I ever wanted from the game. Suckerpunch knocked it out of the park and I'm more than 15 - 18ish hours into the game and I've just been enjoying the beauty of the game. The Exploration is great, there's always something to do it feels like in the game. The combat is so fluid too. I am absolutely loving it and it's so hard to put down.


I am currently half way through the game and loving every moment about it. While waiting for Cyberpunk 2077 to released I was hoping to find a game to hold me over that wasn't Warzone. I saw the preview for it about a month before the release and was instantly sold. Ghost of Tusushima is beautiful and fun. I have the game spoken audio in Japanese with English subtitles and i feel like this the way to go. Photo mode is amazing and has so many options, so much so i have taken quite a few screen captures already. The combat on normal mode, is engaging and tough. I think the most defining feature for me is the waypoint system. No mini map and you are guided by a blowing wind who is apparently the spirit of your late father. So far i have enjoyed this game thoroughly. Plus you can pet the foxes!
The game isn't bad and before I say any more, I do highly recommend buying this game because it really is worth it. Me giving it a seven is really only because at certain points can get repetitive. This game is awesome and the combat at first is just so satisfying and cool, but after a few hours of playing it does get a bit repetitive. At some point I do recommend you start to embrace the ghost aspect and become stealthy because it adds more to the game. Clothing and armor is all useful for their own reasons so depending on your type of playstyle, you wont have to worry about having terrible armor. Though the outfits due have a few cool things you can wear and modifications to add to them, the clothing options seem lacking. There's not too much to wear if you were expecting fully detailed customization. Also for some reason things do seem to be downgraded a small bit. Maybe due to technical limitations or maybe them finding something new to go by when it came to the development. Graphics are not the greatest and certain scenes you can see it looks more like an earlier ps4 title. There are also issues with frame rate drops occasionally and xertain instances where characters will freeze in the middle of cutscenes for a split second. Now the greatest part of the game is both the style of the world and Jin's storyline. You slowly push back the invading Mongols while trying to save and help the people of Tsushima. Side quests as well asspecial side missions make the game feel more open and fun. The game feels as though it borrows heavily from Assassin's Creed, but to a much lesser extent. You clear out forts and other mongole controlled territory and by doing so you clear more of the map allowing you to see more points of interest. However there is no hud so you must rely on exploration to find new ways to clear out the map and to upgrade Jin.

Ghost of tsushima is the most overrated game so far this year. For every thing sucker punch has gotten right with their new IP they've completely missed the mark on two others. Some examples: 1) An incredibly complex and well crafted progressive combat system. The problem here is that the game is so painfully easy on even the hardest difficulty that there is almost no need for such a combat system making it a waste of effort on the developers part. The only times i died after the first couple of hours has always been due to the camera issues. Which brings me to the second problem with the combat...the absolutely horrible camera angles. All the enemy types and boss fights can be breezed through with absolutely no effort whatsoever, as long as the camera doesn't decide to screw you over. Indoor fighting? Out of the question. Coming close to any object in the world mid fight? Completely blocks the camera. You dodge an enemy and get behind him? Better hope you can turn the camera fast enough before he counter attacks. And the list goes on and on with the camera issues. 2) The world is incredibly well crafted both graphically as well as exploration wise. The navigation mechanics are very original, unique and unlike any other game. So what's the issue here? Well if you want to make an aggressive build for you character you get all the best gear that you need in the first 3 hours of the game. Effectively making any exploration for better gear obsolete. This turns the exploration into nothing more than xp farming to get new skills unlocked. Which are all skills that make an already incredibly easy game even easier. 3) The story is very well written when you look at the dialog and character development. The English voice acting isn't top of the line by any means but is more than adequate and far above the average for most games. But every step of the way when progressing through both the main storyline as well as the side quests, more and more plot holes are added. And worst of all, everything is extremely predictable down to the tiniest details. You will see everything coming from a mile away. Not just simply with the main plot twists, but even within each individual dialog between characters you can predict every single sentence that will be said before they actually say it. Overall great potential that completely missed the mark Combat 3/10 Graphics 10/10 Story 4/10 Exploration 5/10

This game surprised me how well it’s done. The Story is not to complicated and crazy, but still interesting and believable. The game looks amazing and has dozens little details. The gameplay/fights are pretty difficult but very fun. Overall this game is my game of the year.

to all the salty tlou2 fans giving negative reviews to this game, please grow up and accept that tlou2 was a **** fest and a bad game. ghost of tshushima is a beautiful game with a wonderful story, awesome gameplay amazing open world visuals character customization and a lot more. this is an amazing game.

Amazing atmosphere, interesting plot,and good fighting,also attracted Japanese setting which is quite rare. Game very similar to assassin's creed but for me Tsushima even better, especially if we compere with last assassin's creed games

This game is what tlou2 should have been.....im close to finishing and wow im still being bombarded with nice sceneries and photomode is just awesome..... This game is every assassin creed gamer's dream come true since the recent ac odyssey was a failure in terms of story telling and classic ac gameplay
Ghost of tsushima is the game samurai and ninja game fans have been looking for. The game play is fun the fighting is fantastic. This game captures the heart of Japan with shinto shrines and kami spirits and Samurai poetry. Best game I've played since the witcher 3
Game has a few technical issues. I had multiple crashes, V-sync is off, enemies can appear out of thin air, game has a few rendering issues, multiple areas drop fps pretty significantly. This can be an issue in mass group combat which happens often. Story was pretty damn good, gameplay is fun but gets repetitive quickly. Also the artificial difficulty comes from numbers vs actual difficulty in combat. Bosses are highlights of the combat experience but they’re typically dragged out fights. Goes from any sense of realism to a fan service anime fight. Game looks great.
Now this is what a Real game is all about: Entertainment! The creators of this game understand what a videogame should be about: Entertain people. With all the nonsense going around in the world, it is important to remember that games are a way out and a escape from reality, where we get to be part of adventures and emotions, not political BS and wokeness. Played it from day 1 and man... I haven´t been this entertained since The Witcher 3. So people, do yourselves a favor, if you want deep interesting story, well developed characters, amazing graphics, incredible soundtrack and just want to slash bad guys, get this game, you will be entertained and forget about everything else for a while without having politics shoved down your throat. Kudos to Sucker Punch and thank you!!
loved the combat, game play and story.I loved the open world and I became emotionally attached to the characters. the absence of the HUD made the world feel more alive.
Such a beautiful game, the art, the combat, the audio. For me, this is a game I've been waiting for. I can just walk around doing nothing in the game and just be amazed at all the details whether small or big. I hope for more DLC, i would gladly pay for more. I still haven't finished the game cause I take my time and actually enjoy the game instead of running through it just to say i beat it. This is a 10/10 for me.
What can I say that has not already been said? This game was worth my time, all of it, even the extremely tedious collect these random collectibles. Do you know why? Because the sheer beauty these guys crafted. I have fun just roaming the lands, watching the colors shift, storms approach, fog sweep through the trees. Practicing the blade. Game developers need to look at these guys because they set the bar with this. It doesn’t feel like too much to take in either, I don't feel rushed or forced to do anything I don't feel like doing. Side quests are a nice break from the main story that are still relevant in their own rights. I know the story is not the most original, but I still dug it. I found myself interested in every single activity I could discover. I found myself growing emotional for what I could and could not do, for what I was forced to stay quiet about for the greater good of Tsushima. So, I continued practicing the blade. It has been awhile since a game made me relate to a character and have such an emotional reaction, god that ending. It's just good guys. Combat is fun despite minor flaws that can pop up relating to targeting or stance switching. Take your time and learn the controls and no one will beat you down., practice the blade. The map is larger than I gave it credit for when this game was first shown, that was a pleasing surprise. I loved watching the landscapes change as I entered new areas. Cons: I do not like climbing so the temples irritated me slightly, I don't like the grappling rope because it sometimes didn't register what to do. The absolute worst thing about this game is the UNHELPFUL ANNOYING GUIDING BIRDS. Buddah knows how much I hate those guiding birds, please shut up and leave me alone. I know where I'm going, you're not helping me 90% of the time, if I could shoot you I would. Sometimes foxes can get glitched if you enter combat while following one causing you to have to restart the game to fix it or sometimes just leave the area and come back after a mission or two. Pros: Sword go swoosh. Pretty game is pretty. Nice story that I care about. Engaging gameplay. Buy this game. An important note: TLOU2 Failed to get me to like Abby because of how badly they wrote her and how utterly distant I found myself to her as a character. This game made me hate 2 characters then showed them in a different light. They did so well with how they showed the light and dark of a person that I wound up really caring about them. I beat this game and wanted more. I found myself so capable and skilled that I needed no longer practice the blade. But practice it still I did. I cannot get enough of this game. I need more. I am still hungry. 8/10 for me because nothing is perfect, minus a few flaws I can honestly say my money was well spent.


I did not expect the combat to be this good. It's fun even though in the beginning I have died a lot. This is going to be a top 10 of all time classic. It doesn't need to be compared to other games but it is amazing.
I'm 20 hrs into the game and so far love every minute of it. I'm in early stage of the game so abilities of my character are not yet developed, but every fight is so satisfying. Scenery and music are breath taking, and photo mode is just insane.

Wow. All I can say is wow. This game is beautiful and colorful, stylistic and overall, gorgeous. The story is just fantastic, the modeling is spectacular, the combat is just out of this world and one of my favorites ever! The story is sad in some parts and awesome in others. The characters are so likable and relatable and interesting. Seriously, I really recommend this game to any far cry, assassins creed or Japanese game fans
Solid game play, nice cutscenes, leveling is ok, the animations during the fights are a bit rough around the edges and the camera needs some fixes but its a nice game with a good story and a beautiful world.
Visually stunning world. Side quests are actually good and feels like part of the main quest. All characters are very likeable. This is a masterpiece of a game. Best game I've ever played yet!
While not the most graphically intensive game ever made, The use of color used to bring out the beauty of nature and the sturdiness of Japanese architecture makes the game visually breathtaking. The combat is very precise and skillfully satisfying, allowing you to take on enemies head on with honor as a samurai, or striking from the shadows as the ghost. I don't think there is any better way Playstation could have ended this generation.
By all accounts, Is better revenge story than the joke of us 2. Last of us 2 only reached 4 million copy sold because they put Joel in trailer and lie that his role would be longer
I gave this a 9 because I do not every rate anything as perfect. If you like single player stories, great game play and graphics, this is a must buy for you.
I would put 12/10, but there is no such option, I will say that the game MUST be bought if you want a great storyline and gameplay, it's funny that the Last of Us fanatics burned out.


It is a very nice game with good graphics and a nice story, the game has a beautiful atmosphere and it's very cool to play as an samurai, the side missions are also great and you can do many things in the open world like clearing Mongol camps. I would recommend it to everyone.
One of the best games of this year. There is no political agenda in this, these conflicts are not needed in games, it is a game as it should be, and it is pleasant to play it. I really enjoy her. Thanks to Sucker Punch Productions for a great game.
Почему люди думают, что при сравнении TLOU 2 делает игру хуже? Почему игра засрана из за сюжета, лишь потому что она однотипная. Люди каких круговоротных событии в сюжете хотят, что бы это оправдало цену за игру и оценку на метакритики. Блять самый ахуенные люди здесь которые поставили ноль игре, лишь блять из за сюжета. Про графику и боёвку ни слово, вот блять "язык щемил". Минус очко за неправда подобность игры (в плане истории).
Game reminds be of Far Cry/Assassins creed, also features Witcher 3 like open world, if you like this type of game, this is for you. The story and the quests are quite fun, I recommended getting this game, but I unfortunately cannot give it more than 7 because I feel there is nothing really original, nobody is going to take something from this game and claim they have copied Ghost of Tsushima because every aspect of it is based on existing culture or existing game mechanics from other games, even story presentation and cinematics.
It really is a fantastic game. Graphics, gameplay, story! Its all incredible. Sometimes feels a little repetitive and the story is a tiny bit predictable but overall I would easily say one of the better single player campaigns to come out in a while.
This is a real samurai movie. Very nice and very boring. The story is also typical of such works - it is simple. Characters ... and again everything is like in a regular samurai movie. And this is not bad, in the end these are genre features.


This is how a interesting open world has to look like. Beautiful graphics, great challenging gameplay, interesting story, great scenario. The map is not filled with a lot of garbage that is supposed to keep you busy for your lifetime. And there is minimalistic hud that is great for the immersion. I love the game. Great work sucker punch.
This game is absolutely fantastic. The visuals are unparalleled in this generation of gaming, and the care and affection taken for Japanese culture and history shows the true dedication of the creators. While the combat can be repetitive, it is a game that you get beat up at first, then become the master of martial combat. The timing required for parries leaves you able to become focused on combat to an almost zen-like point. While this game does draw inspiration from games like Assassins Creed and Arkham City, it feels truly unique in the way that it combines gameplay. In this game you will defend your home, take revenge on its invaders, locate and pray to shrines, compose haiku, relax in hot springs, and assist the people of Tsushima in reclaiming their lives and happiness. Be a true warrior poet, buy this game. Buy this game and witness escapism at its best.
This game is something it feel like assasin creed in japan the combat system the environement everything I hope they release this game on pc so I can play again to drive the mogols if I finish the game cause I am on chapter 2

I am tired of the **** Criticks for this game. I WATCHED 5 Youtubers play Lastof us 2 .and Naughty dogg **** up that game. and now there Angry **** Fan base. is **** on ghost. because the game is better just so this game cannot surpass them and. if you watch berleezy you can see one of the devs smitefull face. when he says that iberleezy is going to have to appologise to them. for getting game of the year. I SAY this is bull **** You think you can give your gamers a **** sex scene that last 12seconds. and have your simp base come and trash a game that is one of the shining stars of japanese culture. and this game touches on real aspects from the past, yet you still **** on this game with fake accounts the only way we can get this games rateing. and this game should be the game of the year period **** NAUGHTY DOGG THEY ARE ****




Thank F this came out very quickly after the whole Last of Us Part 2 trash!!!!! This game is as near perfection as you can get these days with just some minor gripes and bugs to deal with.
この世代の私のお気に入りのゲーム。それは傑作であり、その歴史は私が今まで見た中で最高の1つです。こんなに良いゲームを作ってくれてありがとう。


Bardzo dobra gra. Świetna grafika, w szczególności efekty cząsteczkowe. Każde zadanie jak w wiedźminie ma swoją historię. System walki również jest świetny, możesz walczyć jako honorowy samuraj (co daje ogromną satysfakcję) albo nie honorowy duch.

Fantastic game! The textures are a bit low resolution, but other than that the game looks great! The combat is also really really good! All and all, your money won’t go to waste here! This is THE game to pick up right now!

This game a visually stunning, a delight to the eye. The game mechanics are easy to learn and the story is beautifully written. Surely my top 3 games of the year.

Одна из лучших игр, в которые я играл. Достойнейший продолжатель жанра стелс/экшн, достойнейший потомок серии игр «Tenchu”, которые я горячо люблю, зайдёт игра не всем, более того, многие назовут её переоценённой, но, опять же, тут палка о двух концах, многие назовут эту игру одной из любимых. Sucker Punch уже не в первый раз доказывают свою значимость для Sony, выпуская очередной шикарный эксклюзив: до этого были серии Sly и Infamous. Самое крутое, что студия умудряется делать каждую новую франшизу отличную от предыдущей, что ей и удаётся. Надеюсь у «Призрака Тсусимы» будут свои DLC и/или продолжения, ибо не хочется терять такой потрясающий, забытый многими геймплей, а тем более в таком сеттинге, и не стоит сравнивать игру с серией assassin’s creed, всё-таки это самобытное произведение, которое отсылает к старым сериям (tenchu, bushido blades и т.д.) больше, чем к серии Юбиков. Если вы фанат Sony, ниндзя, самураев, Куросавы или японского сеттинга ВООБЩЕ, то игра однозначно обязательна к ознакомлению, в остальных случаях можете посмотреть обзоры и прохождения, я же ставлю игре уверенные 10 из 10
An excellent game with superb Graphics and Sound, Sucker Punch has gone above and beyond making sure the game is as historically accurate as it can be and it definitely shows. the world feels alive and vibrant with colors and really makes you feel like a Samurai in 13th century Japan. the performance on the base ps4 is very good and still looks good as well, and the game loads incredibly fast. Its a stunning Masterpiece and an excellent game to end the PS4"s life on a High Note. 10 out of 10.


This is an extraordinary game destined to be among the best open-world adventure-stealth releases of the recent years. Most comments compare it to the Assasin's Creed games, although Ghost of Tsushima is way ahead of what the AC genre tried to become and failed after its golden years. Set in medieval Japan, our protagonist tries to mobilize the defence of the Tsushima island against Mongol invaders. Historical accuracy is really off-the-charts and you learn a lot about the period, Japanese and Mongolian customs, politics and society in the game. It portrays the horrors, drama and betrayal of war and conflict in a beautifully poetic way. The storyline is extremely satisfactory with very interesting twists and turns, and both the protagonist and other characters are portrayed in sufficient depth that the player develops attachments to most of them. The campaign length is also satisfactory with no unnecessary grind; although grind is fun because it helps you to immerse deeper into a very interesting story. Graphics are AMAZING. Not only that the game has some of the best visuals in this genre, but also movement, sword mechanics are quite beautifully portrayed. Character progression, skill trees and new tools are interwoven really well into the game. Newer types of armour and sword become available as you progress along with the game and each new armour or weapon set has a story behind it, which is MILES better than microtransaction nonsense. Specific mission types require special armour (i.e. stealth-specific armor types, or duel-specific armour) so you change frequently between armours and gear depending on the mission at hand. There is very few I can complain about this game and I'm really looking forward to its story DLCs. Highly recommended for open-world action-adventure-stealth lovers that seek good gameplay mechanics as well as a good story.
TL;DR great game, great story. not really long story, amazing combat. Not perfect, but damn great game. The story is exceptionally well made, though in my standards, too quick (bare in mind i enjoy long stories like assassin's Creed 2, witcher 3, etc). The side missions somewhat make up for it. Gameplay is great, my favorite aspect is the combat. It is indeed tough, but it fills you with pride when you understand the enemy patterns and master your Stances (BE patient, MASTER the enemy's patterns AND your stance attacks). I also enjoy the Outpost/fort attacks (similar to AC), though alerting the enemy is less punishable than other games' stealth functions. IT IS NOT AC JAPAN: no conspiracy to overthrow shadow puppeteers, climbing is VERY limited, assassination function is not as advanced as AC gameplay. Personally I'm annoyed with people praising this game as the Japanese assassin's Creed we always wanted (and I want it so badly). sucker-punch deserves better than that. not every open world game that involves stealth should compare to the assassin's Creed franchise, especially if that game is in a historical setting (ghost of tsushima has displayed better authenticity then any assassin's Creed I remember btw) this amazing game deserves to be in a league of its own, ESPECIALLY the combat, it smokes AC out the water in my opinion ( the last combat I truly enjoyed from assassin's Creed was unity, THAT took skill). GoT does have flaws, I wish there was more customization to gear, as in purchasing seperate armor components, that may have different affects on health, combat, etc. Instead you just unlock/discover armor/outfits that you can upgrade/dye. (Though helmet and mask are interchangeable but they seem just cosmetic). Biggest complaint is how you get the actual ghost armor late in the game, I DONT LIKE THAT, they marketed the game with that armor ON. I would assume you'll get it alot sooner. But whatever. The characters are good, I did form some love for some, annoyance for others (that was because of their actions/personality, not bad writing) the best part about the story is how it handles a conflict between holding one's honor/ego/self vs. doing what's necessary to protect someone. The big question is: will you sacrifice your honor(life) for someone's life? Or vice-versa? (Bare in mind feudal Japan's samurai culture was insanely honorable. Remember seppuku, cutting yourself open from waist as suicide from dishonor, their honor is LITERALLY THEIR LIFE). I love that conflict. All in all I did enjoy this game and I am still currently playing it, if you wish to go for all the trophies/achievements, it is very doable, personally I will enjoy the grind. Would give it 10 out of 10, but the story length, customisation options, were not my forte. (Story is not short, I'm just used to longer stories is all, regardless it is damn great!) I genuinely cannot wait for a sequel, I honestly hope there is a sequel. GHOST OF TSUSHIMA IS A GREAT GAME, GET IT.


Ghost of Tsushima is a perfect send away to this console generation. It has everything that i expected, amazing graphics, good story, fun game-play and amazing sound design. But like this console generation it doesn't do anything especially new or different. But it doesn't have to. I personally loved the story. I never liked samurai movies in the past, but now i can see how they inspired stuff like star wars. The story really pushed me to complete the game, i played it all in Japanese. It worked perfectly, except for lip syncing issues that i barely noticed while reading subtitles. IDK what to say good about it other then it is a very fun game worth playing. That and i loved finding all the inari shrines and doing all the haikus. It never felt like busy work. The open world looks amazing, but there isn't much there other then looks and side objectives(Villagers to rescue ot give you on map side objectives). Onto the bad however. The camera is extremely frustrating. Any time you are indoors it can bug out hindering you from seeing attacks coming your way, killing you sometimes. Button presses do not register sometimes, i went up behind a mongol one time and tried to stealth kill him only for Jin to regularly attack him. I would press the buttons they want me to, to switch stances to fight different enemies but it wouldn't register. The controls can be a bit clunky at times, as there is no lock on feature. The game also starts off extremely hard, but by the end of the game is extremely easy. IDK if it is just because i completed all side objectives, but i played on hardest difficulty and it was still rather easy. The photo mode while nice to have, can get in the way sometimes. As i try to heal only for me to go into photo mode. The controls in general can be a bit of an issue too. As it isn't as tight as assassin creed is now. But for al it does it is an overall enjoyable game worth playing. I really loved the story and the characters the most. The gameplay is also overall enjoyable, but stealth needs a bit more work.
Most enjoyable and immersive game ever. Really like the environment and story of Jin. Already looking forward to more of how his story will expand if there is a sequel. A "lone" warrior hunted by the Shogun trying to defend his home is really compelling.

Типичная опен ворл дрочильня с красивой обложкой, когда в начале получал удовольствие, то во 2 акте меня игра максимально задолбала и допроходил игру через силу, что бы увидеть концовку
its a very fun experience that is brimming with detail, beauty and just enough heart to make you feel as though the developers cared a great deal for the culture and time period. So many of the game's systems and gameplay elements have been designed to really harness the game's stunning world and art style. The gameplay itself is fantastic, the combat and stealth mechanics are smooth and satisfying. I've played what feels like a hundred hours, and the narrative and characters are interesting enough to make this time spent feel worthwhile. However, I can't tell you i've gained much from the experience other than some pretty decent screenshots. With animals to follow and discover, no HUD to distract, and a wind mechanic that removes the need for a typical way point, you'd be fooled for thinking the game is immersive or unique. These are great ideas, and as said, they draw your eyes to the scenery, but sadly, they don't keep them there. The game feels like a standard Ubisoft title. A big map littered with repeating locations and things to do. A map that still end up being used as often as in any other game. Also, a very serious criticism, has to be the terrible AI. Moreover, its quite astonishing how easy the game is to play. (I played on normal, like i do with any game, and there are long stretches, tens of hours, where i didn't even come close to dieing.) In all honesty, this game might be the most accessible game of its type (I'm assuming this explains the high user review score). There's no doubt that this is a positive. But sadly, it leaves an empty feeling when you realise how unoriginal so much of the game's core is. All of the game's themes and gameplay elements good, but also kind of uninspired. Sucker Punch has perfected the style they set out for, and have immediately mastered the open world genre...but they have done so in the existing template so many developers before them had already established. Its a great game, just not a particularly memorable one.


I really do enjoy this game. So far i think it's fantastic. While it's not perfect I was one of the skeptics and haters that didn't think to much of the game or cared for it but Now i can't stop playing it. I have to give credit where it's due, in my opinion this might be GOTY. Although this game dosen't reinvent the wheel or genre it's still a spectacular game but While it's not on TLOU 2 level cause of some of the Stealth issues/mechanics (can't go prone and literally a carbon copy of AC) even has the hidden blade smh , really tedious side quests and traversal system, repetitive combat (sometimes not rewarding or satisfying enough) atrocious camera angles (too far zoomed in), reused animations; seeing the same death and kill animations gets tiresome through out the game which leads to repetitive gameplay, basic level design/mission structure and a fairly predictable average story. It's still a really fun and great playstation exclusive. What a great way to end the console generation than with a banger. I will give my full analysis on the game late


Every aspect of this game is both good and bad. Graphics are great outdoors, but mediocre indoors, and the lip synching is terrible. The music is serviceable but ultimately forgettable. The combat system at first glance is loaded with enough depth and complexity to make it enjoyable, but it falls apart when you are surrounded by enemies (which happens 90% of the time). Because of the highly zoomed in camera and the atrocious FOV, enemies constantly move off camera and hit you blindly, and trying to keep them all on screen is very fiddly and frustrating. Stealth is the absolute bare minimum, there is no depth to it, and you are being chastised for using it even though it's a core part of mission design. The writing is serviceable, it moves things along, but it's never spectacular. Exploration rewards you with some collectables and nice vistas, but the world is empty. There are no environmental stories being told. You can't tell your friend "I was exploring the world in GoT yesterday, and I found those super cool things". There are no cool things, only supplies and iron and bamboo sticks. Overall, I certainly expected more from such a game in 2020. When its good elements are on display, Ghost of Tsushima is phenomenal, but it also seems to be somewhat stuck in the past.
A very mediocre game. The combat is extremely generic and maybe even worse than that. The combat and mechanics overall are just very bland. The story is fairly decent though. I’d give it a 6, maybe a 7 for the story. I’m just very disappointed overall with this game.
Jogo muito bom como qualquer outro de outra desenvolvedora !!! Sem essa de estimar game normal !!!Jogo muito bom como qualquer outro de outra desenvolvedora !!! Sem essa de estimar game normal !!!

Я, как Главный редактор самого популярного ресурса, недоволен количеством чемоданов от Sony после The Last of Us: Part II и не могу оценить труды больше 5 баллов. Это не игра Sony, до фильмов Marvel ей далеко, лесбиянок хотелось бы побольше и сильных геев не хватает. 4К и HDR - это хорошо. Но, простите, кто не любит деньги? Вообще молодцы, забывать, что 5 баллов, тоже не плохая оценка!
it’s a really beautiful game that’s visually stunning but overall just an ok game. The story isnt anything special and just generic. Jin’s character is almost bone dry of a personality. The bugs and frame rate drops are a bit frustrating at times. The only quests I found to be compelling were Lady Masaka. The combat is good and satisfying, no complaints there. The game crafted the combat system well. Overall, i’d still recommend this game to the average player but don’t expect the game to be groundbreaking.
Assassin's creed: Japan, не кажется ли сама механика этой игры слишком банальной, не очень интересный геймплей, ожидал чего-то большое, возможно из-за этого и такой бал, фанаты извините, но я не вижу в этом игру, которая заслуживает подобных оценок.


Masterpiece, cool story, nice fighting system, gameplay, photomode Is OP, nice japanese voices. Man the detail of katanas and armours, it Is a true spiritual sucesor for tenchu.
In spite of this garbage website's best attempts, LOU2 will be remembered as trash, while this game is potentially GOTY material, an absolute delight to play, and the Samurai simulator we have all been waiting for in the West.
I’m a big Kurosawa nerd, and this game hit all the right notes on that end. It’s a great Kurosawa video game. The combat is amazing, the world is beautiful, and it’s such a zen game. Story isn’t anything special, but it’s simple and fun, and works most of the time. Customization options are amazing as well, and I appreciate how all the skills you learn are useful in gameplay. However, my biggest gripe with this game is that is feels dated. If it was released 2-4 years earlier, I would’ve given this a 9-10, but after all the innovations made by games such as TLOUP2, God of War, RDR2, HZD, and many other AAA games, it feels like it’s been left outta the loop. Things such as cutscene to gameplay transitions, super simple stealth, and very exploitable AI during stealth. At times during free roam, this game can also feel like you’re just ticking off boxes on a to-do list. I’ve encountered many glitches that ruined the immersion too. Overall, I’d highly recommend this game for any Samurai and Kurosawa fans out there, and also those who are looking for anew and fun open world experience. Just don’t go in expecting it to be anything close to ground-breaking.
Meh Game. Story is too hollywood, full of plot holes (you are supposed samurai but do ninja? LMAO) Combat is just good enough, gfx and music are ok (not top of the pops like gow, tlou2) A bit disappoint.
Perspective from a female gamer. So I am pretty sure this game is going to get over an 8 for overall user review scores, but I want to give this game an 8. I want to say I have played about 20 hours so far, so I am not completely done with teh game, but certainly I can say a lot about the game, I also want to say i have TLOU2 at a 5/10, so that gives you an idea of comparison for me personally. The graphics/world are BY far the best aspect of this game. I just stopped a lot and just immersed myself in the stunning world. It is one of the most beautiful video games I have ever played. The authenticity of the world and environment is great, which you need for an open world style game. The music is also really good, not quite up to Nier Automata or Persona 5 for me, but really awesome! So why an 8? I personally feel the combat is pretty good overall, but it's not really my cup of tea so to speak. So if you like this kind of combat (sort of like Assassins Creed I guess) you might rate this higher than an 8. I also thought the main protagonist was kind of decent but not quite enough for me. So that's my small review. :)
It's not a bad game per se. But honestly it could be just another Assasin's Creed Cowabunga or whatever. Just another open-worldish tower clearing clone game. Gameplay is eh, music is all right. Graphics are being weird, sometimes it looks alright, but some cutscenes are so poorly directed that it feels like a 15y.o. mmorpg cutscene~ Overall impression is just meh, probably buy it if you're a fan of samurai, feudal japan, and crappy forced stealth sequences Oh also main storyline is around 8-12 hours, the rest are just copy-paste grindy sidequests
Landscapes: 10/10 But that's where the good things end. Graphics are unpolished and kinda remind ps3 games, the story is nice but simple and boring. Combat system is weak. And what's the point of making an open world game where all the side quests are ALL. THE. SAME? I really don't get all the hype for this game really
O jogo possui uma jogabilidade incrível e variada com as habilidades, equipamentos e estilos de luta. Os gráficos são excelentes, e sugiro para quem tenha um PS4 potente, que rode o jogo em 4K para ter uma maior imersão em relação aos gráficos do jogo. A história é bem elaborada, não deixa pontos sem nó em momento algum, até mesmo as histórias secundárias, contos, e etc são muito bem elaborados. O som do jogo é muito bom e principalmente quando se joga com HeadSet, a ambientação é boa, som dos inimigos, aliados e animais são bem feitos, então digo que o jogo é forte nesse ponto também.
Очень атмосферная игра, механики убийства и анимации очень проработаны, нет той самой "повестки" что не может не радовать. В общем рекомендую


WOW what a way to end it with PS4 and move on to the next gen. Beautiful game over all, the intro was by far the best. Combat is system is awesome. Is this the best game ever made? probably No or yes. Game of the Year? maybe. This is the best ps4 game I have played since 2020. Worth the wait but unfortunately had to get it digital, because gamestop be telling lies sometimes. but it was a great buy and i have no regrets. Pros: excellent AAA game overall it a must PLAY.. Cons: I was disappointed on hunting animals. Its great to have animals the world, but killing a bear all the time does get low, especially when there are deer and goat running around as well. You can kill the deer and goat but you will not get any hide from it. So i find that kind of lame. And there is no fishing in the game that was a let down especially with all the beautiful lakes and rivers in the game. If i could give it a 9.5/10 I would But I cant. Some people has it at 8/10, the right spot for me is at 9/10. It could be at 10/10, But I dont see it, at least this game didn't disappoint like the last of us 2 lol.
Don't listen to these haters who gave it a 0! They never even touched the game. GoT is the most enjoying game I played in 2020. Just play the game and see all for yourself.



Ghost of Tsushima is a decent game with a good story. But the gameplay mechanics leave a lot to be desired, as it's nothing we haven't seen before. Gameplay seems to borrow from other games before it, such as the Witcher 3. And though Ghost of Tsushima is not on the level as the Witcher 3, it's still really enjoyable to play.
This game is good, but not the best, it would’ve been a lot better if they made the AI in-story a little bet better and not like a complete bot. Visually, it’s very good the graphics are amazing, gameplay and combat and sword mechanics are also very good, the story is just ok. I only had a problem with the stupid AI it felt like a 2006 ps3 game’s AI lol, but worth a playthrough tho.

Most eccentric game ever.. Awesome environment, carefully placed, intricate details, awesome swordwork and combat, on eof the best Voice Actors.. Pure awesomeness.. Hope they release a PC port to experience this beauty in 4K. Good work
Beautiful graphics, amazing story and fine gameplay. 9/10. I want more. I hope there will be a sequel for PS 5 soon. If i had to choose 1 thing I didn't like...maybe a romance...who cares...stand off

- Graphics 10/10 - Music 10/10 - Combat 8/10 never gets borring, A bit too easy was hoping for even harder then hard difficulty - Random encounters 7/10 nothing new - Side missions 7/10 works like most open world games do this days - Main Missions 8/10 great cinematics and as interesting as it gets in a war game i guess. - Huge world enought to keep you busy for a long time - I really love that you have no mini map and that you get guided by the wind and animals so interesting and new so that easy gets a 10/10 - I've played this game none stop for 4 days and it's simply amazing game, a most own for people who like good combat and open world. - Overhaul 10/10 Because it's just so god damn fun!!
What can i say? It's a masterpiece. A game that truly makes you feel like a samurai, an epic and thrilling stories without clichés like revenge, sexuality or dawson creek's level of dialogues. I would let Jin Sakai marry my daughter. Also probably the best game on the system. At least in the span of these 2 months, that's for sure.
This game is an absolute masterpiece. Everything in it fits just right, from the graphics, to the exploration, and the combat is the most complete i've ever seen in a game. The amount of combos you can make is insane. You can always choose to take your enemies with different options. The photo mode is so well designed I spend most of my time on it. I just wander the world and everything seems intriging and perfectly placed. This is my GOTY without a doubt
Easily one of my top 5 games of all time. The attention to detail is baffling. There is hardly any exposition. The combat is bombastic and immersive. The scenery is unparalleled. Thank you Sucker Punch, this year desperately needed a good game like this.
I had to adjust my rating, initially i gave it a 9 15 hours into the game but I have to give it a 10 now at 25 hours because i just want more of this game! its like enjoying a prime steak dinner with sides and desserts and you dont want to finish it because its so delicious. Game of the yesr for me. THANK YOU sucker punch for a fantastic game. 3rd time im adding to my review, still a 10 and i have 35 hrs into it.



It's a good game. However, it's very much "been there, done that." It's excellent from a technical standpoint, but it brings nothing new to the table with a generic story. Fun? Yes. Innovative? No.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of those games that will give you an entertaining experience, but not one that you haven’t received from several other games over the last few years. Pros: GOT is a well made world, with a large map and very well-defined RPG system, that allows the player to define Jin (main character) through a series of well thought out upgrades, which include various stances and weapon upgrades. The game also features side missions, or “tales” which create a very interesting narrative away from the main story. The games fighting system is also something future developers should take note of. It’s challenging, without being souls like burdening over the course of the story. Parraying feels good, and although predictable at times, enemies can still be a challenge during combat. Cons: Not really a “con” but this game is not as beautiful graphically as some would have you believe. Certain elements are top, but the game falls short overall of the standard set by Last of Us Two and Red Dead Redemption. The game compares more accurately to a Samurai-based Days Gone. Above average, but not mind blowing. Enemy AI is largely terrible, and stealth although set up to be fun misses the mark due to unaware AI, who can de easily disposed of while sneaking around. There are still a large amount of fetch quests, including fetching individuals. The combat, while enjoyable, is incredibly repetitive.
This game feels like the work of junior employees that have an overabundance of ambition without the restraint of common sense. The game eschews convention in favor of style, and as a result things like navigating are much more difficult than they should be. Swipe up constantly to get a poorly rendered wisp that is supposed to substitute for the waypoints and minimaps everyone else has accepted as the standard for decades. It's a terrible misstep and ongoing frustration. Another frustration is that the cutscenes--all cutscenes--are unskippable. I don't need to watch my guy strip down to get into a tub 50,000 times. There's a bit to like here, but it's a shame that there's so much wrong. Unforgivable things that can only be explained by a game having been created by people that don't actually play games.
Ghost of Tsushima.... where should I start. This game isn’t GOTY worthy, definitely not. It’s not terrible, but it’s not as great as many thought. Camera angles suck, NPC’s suck, another open world go to this objective gets repetitive and boring. Nothing new was really added. Characters aren’t really, interesting. Fighting is fun, but when trying to go with stealth it’s annoying.
This game feels like You’re playing an old Japanese movie live! The aspects of the Samurai and the honor they lived and died by. That code of honor makes it hard for you to play missions where you must take the enemy out from the shadows. You become so immersed in the story it makes you feel bad breaking the code. I’m only about 10 hours into this game and I’ve played more side quests and free roam missions than I have the main story. I did learn the hard way that the main story helps you out in some ways. Play them and you’ll see! I’m looking forward to how this story unfolds and I’ll give an update once I’ve competed the game. Enjoy the massive amount of time this fame will take you to complete and fight as many battles as possible with honor!
I liked what I saw in the trailer. It seemed like it was something new. But it is not and this is not bad. Most of the games features we know from other games, so there is not much new in that case. The whole samurai setting and all the different kinds of clans is made pretty good. Combat: The combat feels fluid but is stiff sometimes and doesn’t let you change target even though you want to attack a other one. Normally I don’t play games harder than it needs to be but I was so hyped for this game and it’s setting, I decided to take it slow and do a run on the difficulty „hard“ (no other harder difficultie available). At first I had problems with my enemies. They were fast and ruthless but after one or two hours they’re not as fast anymore - or atleast it doesn’t feel so anymore. Reaching that point was my biggest disappointment in this game. Once you know the mechanics it becomes really easy even on hard. Sure, here and there you still die but that’s mostly because the fights are so easy I made it myself harder and made my own challenges like not using armor, omamoris or even not using new skillpoints. I don’t upgrade my sword too because i want the fights to last longer. You remember the first few assassins creeds where you could just fight with the hidden knife? Just parry and easily one hit kill them. It’s not as bad here in this game but parrying is still pretty easy here. World: The look of the world itself and the setting is beautiful. Very beautiful. But that’s it. I thought this land was invaded by mongols but where are they? Here and there you walk upon some and here and there you have some bandits stealing and killing innocents, which you can fight. But that’s it. Not only the fights are easy, you don’t have many encounters and you literally need to look for them. In main or side missions you can see the scripted patrols further away and they’re really there and blocking ways or patrolling ways but once you’re outside of a mission in free roam, you have only the typical „random encounters“. They feel so overused after just a few. The setting itself and the story makes it good. The gameplay itself is only good in missions.


A beautiful world! Great story! Playing this game was an amazing experience, I really enjoyed playing every second of this game! A near perfect game, 10 points! I wish I can give you more. Thank you Sucker Punch ! In your face TLOU2!


The moment you ride through the fields on your horse and the music starts playing.. goosebumps. Great game to end the ps4 era. Well done suckerpunch!
"Ghost of tsushima" is the piece that PS4 needed to finish its cycle in a great way, good graphics, good gameplay, good soundtrack, a good story (although I personally did not like the ending), it has everything, definitely It is a game you must play.

The opening cinematic displays some of the amazing visual content that the game has. After that, they try their best to mask the tutorial missions, (just like every other game) but they are clearly tutorial missions. I felt the game started off slow because of that. However, once it picks up... Which isn't long, the game starts to feel and play better and better. While difficult at first, I'm really loving the combat system. It's a combination of God of War and the Batman Arkham series, if that makes any sense. You can't just button mash your way to success. The storyline is about as good as you could expect for any open world game. Which is acceptable for me because this isn't necessarily a story-driven game. It just gives you a reason to explore the beautiful environments that this game presents, in all honesty I really don't even need a reason. This game has the best photo mode of any game on any console ever. It's not close. I've been playing this game for just about 3 days, it gets better and better. this is a must-buy for any fan of open world Games.
Graphics is good, story is ok, but gameplay not so good, some few bugs and Honestly underwhelming experience, the transition between gameplay and cutscene is cringy, could have been better, TLOU 2 is far better experience and a masterpiece, this feels incomplete
Pros - combat is pretty solid, visually game looks good, interesting main story Cons - Game needed like 3 more months of polishing. Its actually quite buggy. Side quests are boring. Why people say graphics are so good? It honestly looks like a PS3 game.

Graphics are average. frame rate is bad. Game has bugs. Story is average. Disapointed. Regret spending 80$ on this. Its just anothet open world checklist game wity samurai skin. Average game at best. Save your hard earned money. Wait for 20$
This game has a lot going for it and a lot working against it. The cinematography, graphics, and musical score are all fantastic. The problem is they are in charge of backpacking the rest of the experience. Combat is dull, very easy and uninspired. The story is as Vanilla bean as a story can get. Glitches are everywhere, and the massive map works against the game, it’s not like a Breath of the Wild where the map is one cohesive level. Instead the same sort of bases and quests are spread apart sprawling areas of nothingness from beginning to end. If you love samurai flicks, or are in need of a time sink, this game is for you. If you are looking for a AAA title worthy of sending the word ps4 home...keep searching
The game has incredible graphics in certain scenarios, but the gameplay is horrible, without physics and with several bugs outside that has a very weak and boring story!
This game is a masterpiece. But the Japanese voice cover didn't sync with character's mouth movement. Besides, the Chinese subtitle is translated form English, so for a Chinese player who can understand Japanese like me, that's a very painful experience. It's just weird if you play the game with Japanese voice cover with Chinese subtitle. For example, at the beginning of the game, the Mongolia general talk to your uncle, he said "聞け（listen）, the right translate is "听着（listen）", but the subtitle shows "兄弟(brother)".
I've now finished and platinumed the game. While I was quite positive at first my opinion just kept dropping especially towards the end. Pros: Customization is excellent. There are a decent number of armor sets which when upgraded change visually. There are additional dyes as well to change the color The combat is fun Exploration is great. I enjoy traveling around and finding foxes and writing haikus Cons: The story is very basic and quite predictable. I'm a good guy and the mongols are the bad guys. There were also several moments which felt nonsensical to me. Jin is a weak protagonist. I love that he's voiced by zoro but he's just such a dull character. The missions are extremely samey. I go somewhere and I kill a bunch of dudes... the lack of variety is a real chore. The game is unpolished in several areas. My hair clips through my armor set, my feet clip through rocks when I'm jumping sometimes as well. I also jumped inside of two rocks and one of them propelled me into the sky. The enemy AI is pretty bad. They stop searching for you almost immediately and often don't notice dead bodies nearby. The stealth really isn't great either. It just feels like a waste of time to sneak around when i can challenge everyone and cut them down in a quarter of the time. Allies are pretty useless in battle and I hate they can get knocked down and if you don't revive them in time it's a mission fail. They have trailing missions which always suck and there are some forced stealth missions like 'silent death' which just feel like a hassle. It's lacking in originality. It's very much an assassin's creed horizon zero dawn game which is fine but I always appreciate it when a game takes some risks. Overall it's a decent game but i'm a bit baffled as to why it's gotten such a positive reception. I assume as people play more of the game its flaws will become more and more apparent.
Игра, к сожалению, безбожно переоценена. Откуда такие большие оценки? Куда пропали стандарты качества всех этих людей? Игра объективно устарела в геймдизайнерском плане, местами в графическом и техническом. Сюжет совершенно банален, а диалоги это просто ночной кошмар любого сведущего в своём деле сценариста. В игре есть и плюсы, отличный фоторежим и фильтры Куросавы, например. Более менее сносная составляющая атмосферы и дизайна костюмов. Но достаточно ли этого для таких огромных оценок? Тогда, когда механики игры попросту остались в 2007-2010ых годах? Игра среднячок, который стоит купить по скидке или подождать в PS Plus. Отдавать за него 60$ это кощунство и неуважение к индустрии геймдева.
My first review so for a frame of reference I would say Horizon, Witcher 3, TLOU 1 and 2, Arkham Asylum, RDR2 are 5 star games. I liked GOT, it's a fun, beautiful looking game with some really great ideas in there : wind, fighting system, haiku writing. That said, I don't think this game is anywhere near 5 stars. Like sucker punch's infamous it feels like it needed a few more months to file off the rough edges it still has. Things like : Soldiers killed on cliff edges will not hang of the edge, they will lie flat, with whatever parts of their body just floating off the edge Birds take flight when you approach, but will fly through whatever is in front of them - a mountainside in my experience Not important NPC side mission encounters results in a brief black loading screen then a generic two shot - which you can't move or speed up - and then a black loading screen again to get back into the game Your horse will be nowhere in sight until you whistle where it will be appear almost alongside you You run at the same speed not wade through water until it gets to swimming level You will obtain a couple of bows through the game which you can of course customise with various colour kits. However you only see them when you are drawing an arrow and about to fire, if you release L2 the bow disappears to where exactly? Now, none of these types of things are game breakers for me really. But for a product that is coasting on celebrations of how pretty it looks, these things are pretty jarring. Especially when compared to likes of TLOU2 and RDR2 with their attention to detail. I mean even much older releases of Horizon and definitely Witcher 3 and some AC games do this type of thing much better, and I'm sorry GOT is not on their level. It feels like an opening game for the start of the ps4 lifespan, look at how beautiful it is, not for its swansong. But as I said, it's a fun, cool game and I am definitely looking forward to finishing it. I would welcome a sequel on the ps5. I world just hope that these sort of issues are remedied. Stay safe x

Jogo foi feito sem cuidado, cheio de problemas de física e bugs que chegam a ser irritantes, história comum nada que prenda o jogador, texturas do game muito mais muito feias, efeitos de água beira o ridículo fica até engraçado o personagem não responde a força da água, inimigos repetitivos o combate é bom até a primeira hora depois fica chato e repetitivo, não é um jogo ruim porém com um orçamento grande e sendo um exclusivo Sony, o jogo não vale a compra no lançamento,talvez em alguma promoção se você realmente gosta da temática do game.
After waiting since this games announcement in 2016, I was overwhelmed by this games content. The map is perfect, the collectibles are never too tedious, the world is rich, the environment really brings out the best of Tsushimas graphics that I had to turn off Kurosawa mode just to admire the detail that Sucker Punch had put into this game. I loved Jin and his growth from being a warrior to him becoming "The Ghost of Tsushima". The Japanese audio has added into the emersion with the amazing cast of Japanese voice actors performing for their characters. I am replaying this game with the new "lethal" mode. My only criticism is in its gameplay, but even then, the gameplay issues that I will mention hasn't changed my overall opinion on this game. My only gripes are with the camera when it comes to combat, but that's moreso to do with me since I am so use to lock-on mechanics holding my hand in other games so the no lock-on made me thing more during combat in terms of stances and enemy surroundings. Also, the only glitch that I have encountered prior to the update, which made me laugh honestly rather than feel upset on how unpolished this game is.
- Historically inaccurate - Main character always use the same weapons being a samurai or not - Main character completely ignores enemies weapons (devs laziness) - Dvmb AI - Scripted af story and combat - Open world, but the main plot is linear af - Player choices are pointless because the plot is scripted and linear af - Has 2 endings with the same outcome
I dont even know where to begin. So I'm gonna just do bullet points in no particular order. •This is a samuri game and there is no honor system. •Nothing you do in the game matters at all to the plot or outcome. •Dialog options are minimal and have NO effect on the game. • The game is comically easy even on hardmode. •Waterfall graphics are TERRIBLE. •Every mongal camp and farm is a copy paste with nothing interesting or different about any of them. •Unskippable dialog from the 80th peasant you save saying the same boring line is awful. •There is absolutely no penalty for dying whatsoever. •Many cutscenes simply fade to black and have only sound effects. Is this 2007? •The plot is boring and predictable. •Ryuzo betrays you because his men are supposedly "starving" ...on an island you cant walk 10 feet without tripping over a boar and a deer. •Only 2 animals you can actually interact with for hides in the entire game. Boars and Bears. Really? •Very limited selection of meaningful gear. •All swords only cosmeitc . All hats and masks only cosmetic. •PATHETIC talent system where you quickly get enough points to have e etythinf in the game so you don't have to make any choices in your build... There's many more awful things about this fame but im tired of even writing about them. This is the most disappointed I have been in a game in YEARS... And I wanted to love it so badly... but it failed at every turn.
Плохая графика. На 2020 не тянет, пробегаешь сквозь бамбук как будто его нет. Игру очень сильно переоценивают. Сюжет скучный, миссии однотипные...
Fails in comparison to Red Dead Redemption 2 and the Last of Us Part 2. I find it almost criminally insulting to give the Last of Us Part 2 such a demeaning score just because some people don’t enjoy the story. Well perhaps I didn’t enjoy the cliché and overhyped game of the Ghost of Tsushima. Let’s begin with the graphics. The graphics viewed in trailers and some gameplay is very misleading from the actual game and is not what I expected from a game that has been getting worked on for years and is also a Sony exclusive. The blood is not realistic and there’s hardly any ever gore. The feel of emotion is unrealistic and is lacking in this game. It almost feels a bit soulless. The gameplay is repetitive, but makes up for that with the countless amounts of upgrades you can have with both your techniques and weaponry. The customizations is almost overwhelming, but that is not necessarily a bad thing. There are a host of things that simply don’t make sense in this game. From walking in to random peoples houses and taking their supplies without any hostility from the owners, to being able to ride your horse through trees and other objects without any repercussions. There are a lot of glitches and bugs and I have had to restart the game because of them. Before purchasing this game, lower your expectations immensely. That way you won’t be let down. Quite possibly the most overhyped and overrated game of this generation.
Плохая графика и сюжет ниочём, однотипный гемплей! Не оправдала ожиданий, жалею потраченного времени!

This is sadly one of the worst story games I have ever played. Story: The story line is extremely stale with not even 1 surprising twist, everything played out extremely predictable, none of the boring 1 dimensional supporting characters helped make Jin even remotely interesting. Kutan Khan is such a cliche "super smart" villain that just makes everything else play out way more cliche. The campaign was emotionless, boring, basic, and predictable and it doesn't help that every character had awful writing. It was not engaging, compelling, or creative in any way. Visuals: Its really disappointing to see a game that takes place on one of the most beautiful places on earth miss the bar graphically, compared to other triple A games such as Last of us Part ll this game looks pretty mediocre. The amount of cut out cut scenes that were just black screens is disgusting, during multiple cut scenes, Jin was not even moving his mouth while talking. Overall the visuals are just meh, nothing stood out to me. Game play: While the game play was cool at first, it got repetitive extremely quick, with only 2 assassination animations, extremely easy combat, and some of the worst A.I it was hard to be engaged at all. You could assassinate people within 10 ft of a guard and he doesn't see or hear anything, it was some of the worst programming for A.I's i have ever seen. The stances were cool but then just became a nuisance having to switch ever 5 seconds. The duels are a weak attempt at trying to capture the hardness of dark souls but in the end its just flat out boring. There was one move that the A.I spammed all the time and it was a poke. This move reached almost full screen, had extremely fast start up, was unblockable, and hit for 90% of your health even with maxed out armor. The only way to avoid it was to jump and even then it would still hit even when i was above the swordsman's head or to parry which was extremely hard to do and the parries did even register half of the time. Combat was just not fun and took up time. Glitches: Don't even get me started on the disgusting amount of glitches. Some of them were Characters mouths not moving when talking Movement glitches that make you randomly fall block button not registering against move that were blockable parry registered only 60% of the time Not being able to run not being able to switch stances, equipment or weapons taking damage before cut scene is over and this is just naming a few. Overall talking about the game in full and all of its flaws would take forever so in summary, it has combat and gameplay that is ripped of from other story games, the worst story i have ever played, awful writing and characters, countless glitches, and graphics that don't even reach the bar.
Very disappointed in this game. Game looks great but it has loads of filler and the story and writing is poor imo. Combat is very easy and gets old quickly. Camera angle is very clunky. Game feels very dated, if it came out 3 years ago I think it would have been received much better. Disappointed.


I can't fathom why people love this game other than they just accept graphics from four years ago as acceptable now. It's a by numbers button tap that lacks life and seems to isolate japanese culture to questions of honor. I couldn't make it past ten hours because I was bored beyond reason. Make no mistake, a lot of the positive reviews come from people not wanting TLOU2 to be the game of the year. I have no other way to explain it. Imagine assassin's creed but without the spirit. I wish i had bought the physical copy so I could sell this coffee coaster. Those who say how beautiful it is, maybe they haven't seen the past four years of innovation in video games. Sure, it has a lot of color, but it looks like it could be a high end PS3 game. I was hyped for this game and ready to immerse myself but it is a jarring experience. The combat is just timed button pushes. Most of the game is just building up your character's stats. I can't say how the story is because it seemed to be such a fetch quest I never saw a story develop. Please, if you can wait to buy it, wait until it's about ten bucks just in case your mileage is different than mine. But even at ten dollars, and in a covid crisis, you're better off just playing some of your good games over again.
Very beautiful game. The character development (lack there of) and the game play mechanics take you out of the rhythm of the story. Feels like it was rushed.

This game is one of the best games in terms of overall direction. The environment designs, the lighting, the music, the combat mechanics, game design, every artistic choice is meant to immerse you in the world of feudal Japan. Yes, if you are a hardcore gamer, the game may be easy, but for me, it was never boring. I just felt like a bad-ass samurai. There are always ways to challenge yourself and find new ways to destroy your enemies. Brilliant work, Sucker Punch. I am forever a fan. And I can't wait for... whatever you do next.

I do not like games like red dead and this is red dead with a sword. Frame rate drops a lot. Graphics are good and if you like red dead style games you will probably love it. I couldnt play it more than a couple hours and I was bored. No desire to return to the game, wasted 60.00.
I just don't understand the great reviews. It reminds me of lots of better games I would rather play a second or third time than play this once. The mechanics, movement, environment...if it was derivative and good that would be fine, but it's a lesser version. The wind system is interesting. Combat system sucks.

Game with too much downgrades, barely show the same details of the trailers. Various bugs and detection errors, same animation for different situations. Big world with very little to do, limited fauna and flora. Combat looks goods but Sony always try to misleading consumers with over the top trailers showcase.
CINEMATIC BORING CLICHE SCRIPTED STORY. COMBAT is BORING and REPETITIVE. Its AI is basically nonexistent and Jin companions are literally useless.
Скучнейшая игра, на уровне современных ассасинов, из миссий только 2 вариации: убей всех лицом к лицу, либо убей всех со стелса (который ощущается на кончиках пальцев). Из плюсов только концовка, из-за которой эта игра и получила 4 ( а так было бы 2).
Is only art and i get bored easily,it seems very good extetic but in the play it turns boring the mechanics are ok but if you go 20 hours straight you will begin to feel sleepy and bored
Bad game has no lgbt+ character And what's coming from garbage is garbage shame i've been playing it for 43 hours And nothing special in this game just lile another boring opzn world ubisoft made it's shame that's this game designed being bad for bad telling the truth
Not that I don't enjoy the game, but don't really get why ppl rip on last of us 2 and praise this game so much, the graphics is ok not great, and the plot I could understand when I was 5: Japanese Samurai good, Mongolian bad, very one dimensional with occasional interneral struggle for Jin due to his obsession to follow the samurai code to the letter, can't really find things to praise other than the awsome sword fight
No me ha gustado amigos, está bastante aburrido chavales. Lo estaré sorteando en Twitch por si alguien lo quiere. El viento no se ve real y la historia es muy lenta
It played like a mid tier Assassin's Creed game. It was a bit clunky at times, and the controls were unintuitive. While the game has some amazingly beautiful vistas in moments, when you are stealthiynt moving through camps, everything starts to look bland and the same. These criticisms are more problems for all open-world games lately, as it is a game style that is getting tired unless the developer tries to break the formula. Sucker Punch hasn't. The narrative feels unfocused, and gets lost in the background at times.
Very, very disappointed. Game looks great but it has loads of filler and the story and writing is poor imo. Combat is very easy and gets old quickly. Camera angle is very clunky. Game feels very dated, if it came out 5 years ago I think it would have been received much better.
Just to be fair, I have been exclusively playing Ghost of Tsushima since launch, nothing else. The time period of this game is amazing because we really haven’t had a game set in this time. Yes, you have games like Ninja Gaiden, but that is more of good guys vs demons. Tsushima is not about demons. It’s about man vs man and the conquering of territories. What’s great about this game? The environment. That’s pretty much it. Again, since we never had a game focused during this time period, Sucker Punch did a great job at recreating the landscape. What’s bad about the game? Hell, where do I start. 1) There are points of the game where graphics are very flat. There are no textures whatsoever. You traverse a mountainside and all you see is a flat side. Come on, where’s the person that had that one job to create rocky landscape? 2) Jin, the main character, is pretty much emotionless throughout the game. You tell him that the town is on fire and his reaction would be, “cool story, bro,” without any facial expressions. All other NPCs emotions are reactionary to what’s happening, which is good. 3) Character animation can be bad. If you remember in one of the NBA games, you can scan your face and superimpose it on a player so it looks like you’re playing in the game, but your face is all stretched out and whacky looking. Yeah, that’s what a majority of the character’s faces looks like. 4) You can clearly see elements of other games in Tsushima. What I mean by that, you can spot elements from Assassin’s Creed, Batman, Shadow of Modor, and other open-world games. The ONLY thing that makes this game different than any other game is the time period that the game is set in. Other than that, nothing new original. 5) Dont get me started on the camera. It's god awful because there are times my sight would be blocked by a building, tree, rock, or something that should go opaque, but never does. Such a rookie mistake. With all the above said, this game is clearly NOT a Game of the Year contender nor is it a game of the generation. People saying this are stating this because it’s a new shiny new game and they’ve pretty much got bored and completed all other PS4 exclusives. My Verdict: If you’re interested in this game, wait for it to land in the 19.99 and under bin at your local Big Lots. If you're planning to get the PS5 later this year, I would say wait for the PS5 version since Sony will most likely make you pay full retail for the same game.

Youll be riding your horse through a field of red flowers and stumble upon an assassin. you fight to the death with a sunset backdrop. all of this happens completely organically. Best game I've played in years. Masterpiece.
You probably won't understand my review. Ghost of tsushima is a great game, i probably would have played it for tons of hours. But i could only put around 10 hours into the game. Why? Because the game couldn't stop crashing, it didn't stop there. First was me deleting the game twice, second was me deleting all of my saved files THIRD WAS ME RE INSTALLING THE PS4 DATA, FOURTH WAS ME RE INSTALLING THE WHOLE PS4!! DELETING ALL OF MY GAMES!! WITH ALL OF THEIR FILES!!!!! MEANING THAT HAVE TO PLAY THROUGH THE ENTIRETY OF MY GAMES AGAIN, BECAUSE SOMEONE ON SONY DECIDED TO MAKE CLOUD SAVE OPTIONAL INSTEAD OF PRIMARY LIKE THEIR OTHER MOST CONSUMER COMPETITORS!!!. **** SUCKER PUNCH. **** SONY. AND **** THE PS4. I'M SO DONE!!!!

Why does every game nowadays have to attempt to cram every genre into it? I just want a good hack and slash. The open world formula and constant walking between undiscovered areas gets old too. The combat and stealth are great, but unskippable cutscenes kill replay value and make the game far longer than it really is; typical Sony. Not even that impressed with the story. The whole conflict over marching straight into the enemy while extremely outnumbered versus sneaking around is **** Other issues: **** finding clues and following footprints. I want proper UI **** clearly showing me where to go next. **** the weather and constantly working in dark, rain, etc. Realism isn't that important. Let us turn that **** off. **** platforming. Seriously. I'm here to be a samurai, not a goddamn acrobat/rock climber/whatever the **** Who keeps insisting on including that bull**** in every game? Getting to the shrines is just annoying. Bottom line: Unskippable cutscenes and lack of NG+ is ridiculous in 2020. The devs should be ashamed.
Really disappointed by this game supposed to be a master piece and ending being a poor undistinguished game. Bad textures, really bad AI, non sense open world, there is no reason to explore, and frankly not a surprising combat system. For real this game is a poor 7 maximum. it doesn't even deserve whether we realize is a SONY EXCLUSIVE GAME. such a deception, really. 9,2??? funny
A disgrace to the stage it took advantage of. The graphic and the combat system, although flawed and sometimes bugged, deserve the credit, while the half-baked story, unmotivated characters, lack of japanese lip sync, overall ordinary and average RPG gameplay mechanics destroyed the vibe its precessors strived to establish. It didn't live up to the overwhelmingly postive expectation nor did it contribute anything new to the genre as well as the theme.
Es un juego mal hecho, sus graficas son buenas pero no de las mejores, su gameplay simplon , nada de nada
So this game feels like have ps3 graphics, good but unpolished. The story comes a bit plain and unoriginal, full of boring and repetitive side quests. So.. what's all the fuss and hype about this game?
Fun at first, in Act I, then quickly becomes a bore show, with a very generic story and uninteresting characters. I think that after Act II this is the most boring story and gameplay wise, triple AAA game that I have ever played on this PS generation, I even moved the difficulty on hard, but with no result, this game is very very easy and also because of this becomes very boring. Finished the game as fast as possible skyping the unispired side quests in order to get over with it and gave away the copy. This game earns it's money at a black friday discount, untill then it I don't see why pay 60 bucks for this, a mediocre game at best. It seems that more and more exclusives on PS are mediocre, see The Last of Us 2, maybe Sony is starting to lower the bar with it's games.

People either give 0 or 10. Says a lot that people have NOT played this game properly. I am echoing the other viewers comparing this to Assassins Creed. It is true, it is very much spot on really. But i would only compare it to the very first AC game which was dull. The sequels was better than this. It is basically designed like this: A Main Story line Lots of side-missions. Even more content of rinse and repeat collectibles. Shrines, swords to collect, haiku poem writing, enemy camps to liberate and other nonsense. Does it sound familiar? It starts off promising. The game guides you effortlessly trough the game mechanics and off you go. The story is ok, but was rather boring by Act III. Level design is gorgeous with lovely colours and large flowerfields that pops out on your TV. All is blissfull trough act I to II. But when you hit Act 3 it gets rather depressing. The controls are decent. Very similar to AC series. Combat demands some good timing and you gain more moves and weapons as you go. It is a long game if you decide to do side quest and other chores on the side. By act III i was tired, i played less and less intervals. All the repetition wore me down. The enthusiasm faded out and the game became a chore. The missions on both main and optional struggles to keep it varied. Just the same go from A to B, Kill a bunch of enemies and speak to someone. (sigh!) The End. Gain Exp.. move on. Some technical negative sides: Combat works ok in open areas, but once you are in cramped spaces, it becomes hard to pay attention as the camera struggles to find a good viewpoint for you leaving you blind in the heat of the moment. Stealth i found wonky, as the enemies are positioned in either groups or they spot you too quick. It felt broken and you just did not bother doing it nice and quiet in the end unless the mission required you to remain unseen. Other than that, the game fails to bring a complete package to keep one exciting to the very end. It has all the classic trademark of open-world game failures. So far "only" Rockstar can do it proper. Maybe Watch Dogs 2 was ok as well, at least it kept the story varied. Other than that. It´s huge, pretty, but in the end, a dull outing. Being a Samurai game give it no excuses to slip away from a bad score. Ubisoft is probably mad now as they can´t make a Shogun based Assassins Creed. Oh well.
I'm desapointed with the game, it's a beautifull game, good story and a nice open-world adventure, but it's another rage game... I don't know what is happening to those who develop games, but lately games are very annoying, cause anger and headaches and are very tiring and repetitive .... in this case they are hand-to-hand fights. They are annoying, most of the time you die continuously losing interest to continue the story. The boss fights are even worse. The sequences of the keys for defense provoque me anger (sometimes you have to use the L1 and sometimes you have to use the O key depending of the enemy type attack) ans most of the time doesn´t work, same in the constantly posture changes in combat and when you fail a defense you simple die ... very annoying.

Imersão total em um período histórico do Japão, ambientação incrível e uam história emocionante que foge do clichê e te surpreende com um final comovente. Os gráficos são muito bonitos, os cenários são dão vontade de explorar o mapa todo, com uma ambientação de tirar o fôlego. Super recomendo, talvez o melhor jogo que joguei nessa geração de consoles.
Honestly, it’s just ok. The combat is what is not doing it for me. No lock on. Jin just aimlessly swings his sword and misses half the time. You have to manually move the camera around because the camera view will change constantly while you’re in combat. Even if it’s just one person you’re fighting, somehow the character will miss that person or just swing behind himself. Like wtf are you doing. The AI is just retarded. Watched this dude for 2 mins walk into a horse. He was supposed to be searching for me, but just kept on walking into the horse lol if you’re Alerted the AI will group up all stupidly to search for you, and if they find you, you get gangbang. Most likely die because the camera view will change with each parry, godforbid you’re inside of a house or near a tree, because that’ll now become your camera view. A frickin wall. The main character lost my respect when he keeps crying about his honor, oh my honor boo hoo. He doesn’t want to assassinate people. He was willing to risk the lives of people who have been enslaved, raped or worse, just to protect “his honor”. So stupid. Other than that, the game really has nothing to offer. It’s the same basic side missions, saving randoms you’ll never meet again, same ol tiredness cutscene that last for like a minute before a “boss fight” and you can’t skip it. It’s like every open world game out there. It’s ok if you’re just trying to kill time gaming. It’s fun, but there is the basic repetitiveness and sometimes satisfying combat. Would wait for sale to get it if anyone’s on the fence. If you’ve played any open world game, this is that just as a samurai. It doesn’t offer anything really that makes it stand out. Graphics is not a selling point. It’s 2020, if you haven’t mastered making a “visually beautiful game” by now, kys. I’ve never been sold on graphics. Everything has good graphics during its time.
I expected it to be much better. Pumped a lot by media but its really bad. Characters talking is not synced with the sound. Characters with zero emotion. This game is absolutely not for the ones who are interested in storyline.




Everything about this game is average tbh, not even gonna start on the 2010s style mission structure that if you move 2mt out the play area you get respawned and the mission fails, like wth, i don't get the hype
I don't think this game is a perfect score or a 9, the game has many bad things from the camera to the IA, its not perfect game its an OK game, SUCKER PUCNH CAN DO BETTER they're talented as hell I hope for the future
Admittedly, I’m only about four hours in. But the downsides of this game relate to basic gameplay mechanics, graphics, character models, sound design... which are, unfortunately, unlikely to change as my playthrough continues... Tsushima is very “meh”.... veeeery unpolished, mediocre graphics, bad character models, bad animations with missing keyframes, very bad sound design... unless it improves substantially (which I don’t believe it can, since the aforementioned factors won’t change), it’s definitely overhyped. It’s not horrible, but it’s nowhere near an AAA title. Character models suck, and I don’t think they used motion capture at all. At least that’s what it looks like. Sometimes there are a couple of moments where the world is nice... but in RDR2 and TLOU2 there was not a single point to critique, compared with this... Voice acting is also not very good. If you really want to see it, you can get it, and you’ll enjoy part of it. But again, it’s nowhere near TLOUII and RDR2. It seems more like a PS2/PS3 game.



One of the most repetitive games I have ever played. Every single quest is almost identical. Pick it up, run to a spot, fight a bunch of Mongols or Bandits or Straw Hats, turn in. There is a quest mid game with Yuriko that goes on for over an hour and doesn’t let you skip all of her awful dialogue, doesn’t let you run or gallop 90% of the time, and is just downright cringe the entire time. It is basically a one hour stay at an old folks’ home listening to a stranger and having no ability to go anywhere the entire time. It was literally the worst quest I’ve ever played in 30+ years of gaming. There are dozens of little places to clear and they are almost all copy/pastes. The first few are fun, but it gets old very quickly. The lock on without lock on is absolutely awful. You have no control over it but there is a lock on and you will regularly attack targets you do not intend to. Lastly the controls: awful and great. They nailed stances much better than Nioh. Sadly they completely boffed up the utility abilities. I think it is mostly just a limitation of the junk controller that Sony puts out. Maybe PS5 will be much more intuitive. Graphics are great. Story is so-so. The writers should have written out timelines for each character. Some of them have so many different “I was in this awful situation for years...” that they’d have to be twice as old as presented in game. They also tossed in a lot of immersion breaking SJW trash. Gay guy misses his dead lover that had a wife and kids. A main character has a lesbian relatIonship, is in her 60s, and fights better than almost all men in the game. 1/2 of the boss encounters that are not Mongols are females, in ancient Japan. Almost every town leader is a female as well. It just wreaks of Anita Sarkeesian’s opinions. I give it a 4. It is playable and has its fun moments, but it goes on twice as long as is tolerable with its very limited variety of quests and settings. The graphics are amazing for a PS4 but do not compare to what many PC games give you these days. Mostly the game is getting hype because people are bored to tears. Oh, and it is way too easy. The combat is never challenging even on hard. Finished it today. The main story is really good, and almost redeems many flaws.
It was a mistake buying this game. It is full of bugs, NPC's IA really bad... the only good thing about this game is that the island is beautiful... but the game is just bad. Stealth does not work either and the story is boring.
Previously.. the PRESS & most of the MEDIA overrated a lot TLOU2, & now its counter is overrating a lot to this game too, but whatever... -With regard to historical events.. this game seems to have been developed by a bunch of children with crayons; Examples.. Lord Shimura literally mentions the "Bushidō" on several occasions, something that was just known as such from Edo period {1603–1868} onwards & this game takes place during the Kamakura period {1185–1333}; The Japanese swords of this game are literally called "Katanas", like Jin's "Sakai Katana", when the Katanas just started to be produced during the Muromachi period {1336–1573}, the type of Japanese sword produced & used during the Kamakura period {1185–1333} were the Tachi { 太 刀}, but not the Katana. -It has Haikus.. which only began to exist as such from around 1644, with the creation of the Hokku. -It has very good graphics, but that really is something that has never interested me.. since I like to play games, not to play movies! -The gameplay of this title is AVERAGE at best, in fact, one can't even LOCK-ON the enemies during combat. -Regardless if you decide to follow the PATH OF THE WARRIOR or not, the MC always uses the same main weapons.. that are his Sword & a Bow, so you cannot even use the weapons of the enemies or a dual-wielding fighting style. -It's just a typically open-world game with a lot of useless padding & filler to do, like the Haikus.. which are BORING af & that didn't even existed back then. -The title does not offer anything new to the table either. -It's plot always unfolds in the same way, regardless of whether one decides to follow the PATH OF THE WARRIOR or not. -After one decides what to do with the MC's uncle the ENDING or OUTCOME is always the same & post-END play is always the same..!
I'll avoid a lengthy review here, but summarize with this: even in the PS4 Pro's "framerate" mode, the game downscales from 1800p to 1080p and still only manages to hit 30 FPS. That is pathetic. As for the game itself, it feels choppy as a result no matter what you do, and the combat is bland, missions are boring and stale, and before long, everything you do ends up feeling exactly the same. If this game was on PC, it could and would be much better, but as it is, it's another case of console tech and hardware hamstringing and crippling another otherwise decent title.
gameplay torpe en modo sigilo, misiones secundarias repetitivas, la historia principal a la mitad del juego ya no importa... es como un assasing creed mediocre...
Скучно,скучноооо,какой же это позор.Не знаю,что может быть хуже этого.Худший эксклюзив Сони

Игры мне не понравилась как визуально, геймлейно так и сюжетно. Я даже удивлён что в наше время проекты с таким крупным бюджетом делаются так некачественно
لعبة مملة وفاشلة وسيئة انصحكم لاتخسرون فلوسكم عليها زبالة من الاخير تحسفت اني شريتها
Essentially Assassins Creed with an Very pretty coat of paint, for the most part this game is visually fantastic though its vivid aesthetic relies largely on lighting. When the lighting engine moves into a less saturated colour palette, for instance during overcast weather the game can begin to look a whole lot less pleasing to the eye. Unfortunately this often becomes the case as the weather seems to rapidly change to storms and rain whenever you choose to use stealth tactics which is a nice idea but ultimately in game it can become a little tedious for the beautiful colour palette to be suddenly replaced by uninspired dreariness. Sadly its clear that most of the development was focused on the engine because a lot of the game elsewhere often feels lacking. The stealth I found at first extremely tedious, AI is extremely dull and the environments where a lot of the engagements take place, ie the villages are poorly designed with stealth in mind and the combination of this can lead to tedium. Gameplay can easily devolve into sneaking up on enemies as they stand staring blankly at the side of a tent fixated on absolutely nothing, this can really break immersion. As you start to get a broader tool set around the 20 hour mark or so you can afford to play more aggressively and the game became bearable. The sword combat is serviceable but some very unconventional and unintuitive weapon/stance switching (which also really hurts the feeling of stealth) makes it feel very clunky at first but starts to feel better later into the game. Then on to he most egregious aspects of the game, the writing, the acting and the quests. Honestly the incredibly tedious characterization just made me want to skip every cutscene, the most generic characters I have seen in a sony game for as long as I can remember acted so flatly that it multiplies the tedium to the point of mind numbing boredom when ever there is a cut scene. I honestly think a minimalist approach to story telling in line with maybe something like shadow of the colossus would have been a much better idea. A stronger focus on character designs rather than limp dialog can go a long way. It honestly brings the whole game down considerably for me. Then there are the quests, not once quest so far has been anything other than incredibly uninspired and tedious. some of the most odious fetch/shopping list quests I have seen, I find it truly baffling the many reviewers who claim the TLOU2 had dated gameplay though STAN this as being anything other than passable. Its clear that some misguided agenda is driving the positive reviews, not that Sony care, at the end of the day TLOU2 was always going to sell well despite the negative reviews. This on the other hand could do with all the help it could get. Congratulations, you played yourselves. Sony and the world are laughing at you. Peace and love.
It's a decent game but don't get me wrong there are far too many tens posted here and here's why... Questing almost become a chore as you do the usual take over a village then siege rinse repeat.. easily forgotten charters and how poorly stealth is incorporated is unbelievable.. should have scraped it completely unless it's yet to work a intended.(patch) It does some things right but it feels over simplified and cliche in many ways.. the graphics are decent but I feel like assassins creed odyssey still has it beat in overall terms of enjoyment and design.
This game is a culmination of every open world game that I’ve played for the last 5 years. Almost all of the side content and undiscovered locations are completely useless, fox dens, haikus, and shrines. The side quests are really boring. The combat system is easy to master and doesn’t provide any real challenge. There’s not an original bone in this games body besides it’s setting and visuals (and the Kurosawa mode which is a vibe and a half), Witcher 3, Assassins creed origins, odyssey, and Viking , days gone, horizon zero dawn, all of these games are quite literally the same game as Ghost minus a few game systems.

Я не хочу испортить это. Я бы предпочел, чтобы вы сами это увидели, поиграв в игру или увидев ее позже в интернете. Когда титры прокатились после финальной сцены, я почувствовал себя в кинотеатре и готов злиться.
I didn't really feel like this game brought anything new to the table in terms of open world gameplay. it uses and borrows a-lot throughout the game from the mission design to the skill trees. To me it almost felt like a OG AC with amazing visual might I add just didn't really pull me in without any fresh ideas


How can this game have a 9.3 user score? It's absolutely ridiculous. Oh wait i think i know why. Anyway, bad enemy AI, bad acting, and what's with that out of synch audio sometimes? For such an awaited title i was expecting a better polished game, and i'm not even talking about the mediocre storyline. Boring and unoriginal. See folks, this is way this game gets 83 by the critics and some other games gets 94, despite being both Sony exclusives.


You get to be a samurai. You get to hunt. You get to upgrade your armor and weapons. You get upgrade your techniques. You get to change your fighting stance/styles for different enemies. You get to free roam. You get to get lost in the beauty of the game. No where near done with the story but it seems ok so far.
Played it and then stopped I CAN’T finish this game. Very disappointed that I WASTED MY MONEY ON IT... Assassins Creed even better, this game is too boring...
Японский Assassin's Creed на минималочках, очень слабая игра, даром потраченные деньги. Зайдет японцам как обычное пафосно-патриотическое поделие на внутренний рынок, сюжет полностью оторван от действительности. Это как создать игру где Киевская Русь победила монголов. Вообщем, худшая игра от сони, худший экз. На фоне The Last Of US 2, эта игра уровня всяких выживастиков от ноунеймов из стима. Не рекомендую.

i think its cool game, but it very boring and copy of Witchers in Japan style. Nothing exclusivity

Beautiful open world experience Ive ever encountered since the nature of RDR2 and this game exceeds it's expectations with all of the glory with combat at most felt repetitive but so far and so on it's fun and engaging to the max. Costumizations and upgrades are really amzing to max out and design jin with interesting clothing you wanted and stances are really interesting to beat every enemy type. The negative thoughts i had about this game is the lack of writing for the main story and the characters surrounds it especially Jin Sakai too that most times really dull to follow and Made me don't care about them but aspect form the side Story is really amazing to follow and doing like the mytic tales side story for example and so as the animation for each individual really annoying for some times but i hope Sucker Punch Made an update about the glitch and stuff. In the end the game itself is worth the try and u can disagree or agree with my opinion

Direction, art, environments – GoT is a beautifully directed game. It is so full of breathtaking touches. The way the character casually drags his hand through long grass as we walks to experience the feel of it brushing his fingertips. The way the sun rises through falling leaves in a maple forest. It's really a stunning piece of work. Compare it to Halo Infinite and games of that ilk, and this game is streets ahead. It's like comparing a very high definition Michael Bay movie to a classic Hitchcock, Kubrick or Kurosawa. I know which environment I would rather spend time in. Probably my favorite game of the PS4 generation.
Another over hyped game that doesn't live up to the hype. I got it today, after the 1 hour updates (2 updates. I think it updated while I was downloading the update) I tried it out and wow, looks nothing like the "best looking game ever" that I heard. Looks like an old PS4 game and I got the PS4 Pro in 4K mode. Sound was nothing special, again like an old PS4 game. Gameplay, I don't like this hack and slash games. I thought it was going to be like a stealth tenchu type game but no, its a run in and hack and slash everyone at once. I saw videos of a stealth gameplay but that's not how it was at the start of the game. I started hating it straight away. Only played about an hour then removed the disc, deleted it and put it all back in the packaging all ready to return it to the shop tomorrow. Pity, it was the pre-order special edition with the steal case. I like steal case games but this is the first one I will be returning.

4/10 Nothing special today. Same game like Jedi Fallen Order, new God of War, Resident Evil 3 debacle. Also TLOU2 horror show. All games are same game with different paint. Game never captured my attention and after boring two hours, is stopped playing since I've seen everything before. This game engine of last 15 years is death of games and creativity. Everything looks and feel same

Игра очень скучная, графика просто мыльня и глаза режет, вода как кусок пластилина.
A very mediocre game. Graphics are outdated. The gameplay is boring. This is another Assassin's Creed only in the Asian setting. The story is primitive. Throughout the game, collect team members to attack the boss at the end.
Пфф... и эту полепку считают крутой. Куда катится мир? Герои никаких эмоций не вызывают. Плоские, как фоновые персонажи. Диалоги хочется пропустить, ибо они как под копирку пустые и бездушные. Перерезали всю семью самурая? "Эпичный" рассказ об этом забывается через минуту. Кто-то кого-то предал? Вообще фиолетово прямо в момент объяснения почему мы должны помочь убить одну картинку ради другой. Очередная бессмысленная игра на тему: "мы тут однотипных скучных миссий в открытом мире насовали, дуй выполнять". Первый раз пройти подобную нудятину до конца тяжко. Второй раз потянет пройти только в далёком космосе лет через десять, если тетриса рядом не будет.
Game plays a bit like LOTR Assassinscreed games. If you like the setting, you probably going to like it more and longer than i did but the mechanics are nothing new or unique. Visuals are above average, audio is fine. Models look very static at times but gameplay is overall good.
Unfortunately, this is an example of a game that starts like a really great one, but then ruins almost everything it archived in the first hours of the gameplay. The world has too many repetitive activities. Waaaay too many, and they are too boring when you do them 7th time in the past 2 hours. Also, the world feels kinda... dead? You have a short number of activity’s types, but nothing else. And you cannot go to something else when you are on one of the main quests - game literally tells you that you need to go back. The animations are repetitive too. When you meet your first fox, it’s exiting, but then you meet another one, and another, and they all are literally the same. Or maybe it’s the same fox indeed, haha. And you are going to see her 48 more times if you want to honor all shrines. AND THE ANIMATIONS ARE THE SAME. EVERY. FREAKING. TIME. You are going to see a black screen with some background sounds a lot. Feels like developers were cutting corners to save time, but it took about 6 years to make this game anyway, which is, again, weird. The textures look like they are from PS2 sometimes. I do not know why are we still having problems with textures in 2020, but wooden things and the snow are just… bad too often. And it’s noticeable even when you are fighting / riding. The models look really nice, but the world around them looks cheap. Colors and motion in the environment helps with that a lot actually, but why cannot you make a good-looking wooden bridge, Sucker Punch? It’s not that hard. And don’t let me start on the collision. Jin’s feet go inside a roof when he stands on it, and inside the snow without it deforming. It happens a lot. Oh, and you can literally gallop through the bamboo forest. Look, your horse is a ghost too! Not funny. SPOILER: the main story is a one big cliché. You can totally guess the final boss simply by watching the trailer. Seriously. Allies missions are much better than the main story, so there is at least something. Now to the good things - combat is the coolest feature of the game, at least when you do not have 5 mongols all around you. Then the camera is your biggest enemy, and you do not have a target lock. OMG. Stop, we were talking about good things. Ok. The music is astonishing. The overall atmosphere of the game is great, mostly because of the music, landscapes in motion (please don’t stop to look into details, trust me) and the one-on-one combat. So, let’s summarize it: first several hours are great, by they are ruined by following repetitiveness. The main story is meh, but allies quests are nice. Technical aspect is not great too - too many things look like they are undone or done badly. One-on-one combat is lit, but not the combat with a group of enemies. The game’s atmosphere is wonderful if you force yourself to ignore the bad things I’ve listed. Music is great. I really hope Ghost falls into step of Days Gone, and Sucker Punch team will fix all the bugs, awful textures, the camera and the group combat. I do not recommend buying the game right now, better wait for more patches (and maybe when it goes on sale). It’s a stylish, but not at all polished game, also it's really boring after first few hours, which is so sad and disappointing.
Assassins creed of modern times. Graphics are great, but kinda overdone i think, color saturation and wind make it look rather unrealistic, like from a fable. Personally i dont like it, id rather have more realistic looking game, considering the fact how brutal it is. As a plus- it doesnt have atrocious UI present in AC games, so thank Odin for that. Gameplay is like in any AC game- mediocre and repetitive, combat is easy, AI is retarded (they just queue up and watch as you kill them one by one). If you expected combat to be another Sekiro or Souls, look somewhere else. Because of stupid, blind AI stealth is also a joke, enemies have problems after player is detected and dont know what to do. So yea, devs focused on graphics, and didnt care much about gameplay. This game is typical stuff for casuals. Nothing less, nothing more. If you like AC or medieval Japan, samurais etc. you can try it. If not- dont bother, you already played it few times before, just in different setting.
I am afraid this game fell short of all my expectations. It is probably the only PS exclusive that I really didn't like. Beautiful environments as well as the well thought out skill and combat system are what makes this game shine. However the game drowns under a ridiculous amount of cutscenes. Every interaction with any (relevant or not) NPC AND the environment starts a 10-20 second, extremely unnecessary cutscene. The game is approximately 32-35 hours (with side missions) of 5-7 minutes of repetitive fights in between multiple cutscenes. Unfortunately the cutscenes also suffer from the blandness of the story and sub-story lines. About 90% of them are two people talking in front of a blurred out open field. Subquest lines provide shallow insights into characters' background and present pawns that are impossible to identify with (some of these characters have almost no screen appearance). The missions and the "acts" deploy very similar and familiar mechanics that get old very fast. While the idea of a realistic combat is admirable (the enemies usually go down in 3-4 sword hits), it turns the game into a slash and dash that you don't particularly have to pay attention to, to get through. I finished the game in "hard" (the max difficulty) and I got hit maybe 20 times throughout the entire game, paying hardly any attention to what was going on the screen (terrible camera angles make it impossible to see anyway). The glaring attack "tells" combined with the already easy-to-avoid nature of the enemies, render the enemy AI irrelevant. It felt like they were attacking the air at times. Compared to the standards Sekiro has brought to the sword gameplay (that requires you to be alert at all times and constantly strategising), Ghost of Tsushima falls short and misses the mark by large. A lot of good ideas that aren't explored to their full potential.
Ну накину бал за траву, а больше не за что, куча клюквы, деревянный геймплей, который уже был в играх 10-ти летней давности, а сюжет просто состоит из пафоса...

Is vary bad game ,is no identity, it is an assassins creed like,it a big déception for this game

Offers nothing new gameplay wise and the story just wasn't that interesting. Also it got repetitive and stale very quickly. Nice graphics though. Imo wait for a sale. Cant recommend.
The game was ok, but not worth 60 bucks. 20 at max. The game looks really sad and the combat was horrible. The graphics are bad too. The only good thing about this game was.... probably the map but that doesn’t matter. Overall game is bad. I can’t put a 1 or I’ll probably get banned

Very bad story, boring combat, boring characters, 2015 graphics, there are not a lot of things to do in this "open world" same things over and over again, an IMENSE amount of bugs, trying too hard to be a Witcher 3, saw this game first time and was very excited and now that I have played it it was very disappointing, no interesting mechanics, stealth is bugged as fk, same type of enemy, the worst AI I have ever seen in an open-world, I could go on and on but this game doesn't even deserve that
Boring Story and poor AI :( I wait this game too but it was bad suprice for me :( Why?
Este juego es una total perdida de tiempo, la historia central se te olvida en la primera hora de juego, ya que cuando la introducción de la historia concluye solo sientes que tienes que ir a matar sin saber el origen del por qué o la razón, simplemente un rotundo fallo que su historia realmente no llama la atención ya que se considera un mundo abierto, lo cual te distrae mucho da la historia. Tiene un gameplay muy surrealista a la vez que lento.
very repetitive, I expected something else, the story is simple, it does not have many stealth mechanics, in short I did not like it.
Lo mismo de siempre, sumurais y temática basada en el último GOTY, sistema de juego entre varios géneros y no llega a ser ninguno, buenos gráficos y fotografía pero nada más, no ofrece nada nuevo ni ningún tipo de atractivo
Just a very weak and boring game that does not have any defining qualities of a product worthy of attention. / Просто очень слабая и скучная игра , не имеющая ни каких определяющих качеств продукта заслуживающего внимания.

Belo jogo. Um jogo com honra e dignidade, ao contrário do que aqui tem passado nos últimos tempos. Felizmente o politicamente correcto ainda não está neste jogo. Recomendo a compra.
Welcome to the horrible looking and boring world of a **** samurai. The graphics are outdated asf the combat is clunky and this is the most basic game i played after assasin creed origins. We all know that was **** and so is this. I was looking foreard to this titel but it fails. Thank god Sekiro was a masterpiece

looks like the old assassin creed games Great graphics, easy combat, retarded AI . mediocre/repetitive gameplay with generic open world game where you take over generic bases and search for boring collectibles. Nothing remarkable Nothing less, nothing more. If you like AC or medieval Japan you can try it. If not- don't bother.


es un timo no se parece en nada de lo que prometieron el la E3 de 2018 downgrade los target son un asco los mongoles cansan con sus gritos y el juego es repetitivo hasta el cansancio
A very forgettable story with bland characters and a generic hero who’s name you’ll forget as you play him. Great fighting system that gets old fast. Style is gorgeous. The art direction is really great. However you’ve seen better engines with Death Stranding/Horizon. Overal a disappointing game. Yes the movement is cool but how many times can you go through the same exact fight?
It was visually appealing and great if you like to take virtual photography, but nothing new to add to video games in general. Although it is entertaining to play at times, the lead character is dull, the story is meh, and the gameplay is like Ubisoft open world games mixed with assassins creed swordplay. It’s fun, but not a game-changer.
I can’t believe how can one give 100 or 10 to Ghost of Tsushima. Graphics look like a PS3 game, facial expressions are not that good and the game has evident technical problems (with slow downs and other issues). The atmosphere is good, OK, but that’s absolutely not enough. It plays and looks like any FarCry game, but with a Samurai approach. Reviewers are not being objective, because one can’t review with a 100 this game and also The Last of Us Part II. That’s unfair.
comprei na pre venda e a sony tinha que ter a honestidade de devolver o dinheiro que pagaram pra joga esse jogo sou streamer e uma vergonha esse jogo! hyparam toda uma comunidade pra ganhar dinheiro, jogo ta infestado de BUG nao ta fluido o jogo , se tratando de um jogo de samurai, gráfico de play Station 1
Not a bad game. Ghost of Tsuchima does a lot of things right. There's a lot of things that leave me wondering "Oh... that's it?" throughout my gameplay experience. I think overall, it lacks a lot of innovation. It's a great looking game no doubt, and deserves accolades for the visuals, but for some, this may feel more like an Assasins Creed clone and less like an actual Samurai game to the likes of Onimusha: Warlords or Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. While going the AC route may be good for some, it also adapts a lot of it's flaws as well (huge world with not much to do, mundane unoriginal story, so-so combat, etc.) Another thing I can't stand and what doesn't seem to be talked about is the fact that this game has a tendacy to miss my inputs. A lot of times, when I perform an attack, the button doesn't register, which makes the entire experience aggravating and throws me out of the immersion. Having 8 bombs and switching between weapons for example ends up feeling clunky during battle. The difficulty also seems a bit random. In the beginning the game feels above average in difficulty. Towards the end, it gets noticably easier... I'm not sure if it's due to the mechanics or artifically, but it is something to keep in mind. But some positives, I will say that the photomode was a great addition to this game and was a nice little feature. Lots of awesome color options to play with to get the perfect image you want, and practically every screenshot can become a desktop background. The music score is also a huge element that I absolutely love. Not to spoil it, but the item you get that improves this experience is also a really awesome little element, and I loved playing some tunes of my own in line with the music before a battle. So tallying up the score is as follows Pros: + Gorgeous visuals + Amazing Sound track + Huge Open World + Photo mode Cons - Boring Story - Unreliable Controls - Clunky-Feeling Combat - Lacks innovative gameplay - Difficulty levels inconsistent - World seems empty for its size / not much to do For some, these flaws are fine, but with how much this game has been hyped, I expected a lot more than what I've gotten. Overall... It's an average game, with above average visuals, and below average innovation. As an AC offshoot, it's nice, as an actual samurai game. It's a disappointingly average and forgettable experience. 4/10.
This game has a fun and smooth combat system. I like the death animations with the sword. The world looks nice with awesome draw distance. The story is ok and the game has a great atmosphere. The story missions and side quests are well thought out. The wind effects are good. That being said, the world is boring and empty. There is not much to do in the open world. The lighting effects were downgraded from E3. The horse clips through the foliage, even though the E3 version didn't show that. I know it had to be downgraded to make the game run better, but it's still no excuse for lack of dynamic foliage. The physics are a complete joke. When I shoot the enemies with the bow, they flip around horribly with bad animations. When I shoot an enemy off a bridge, there is no ragdoll physics present and they fall off like statues. When I put the horse in the edge of a bridge, it doesn't trip and fall like in RDR 2. Instead, the horse magically jumps in the air. These trash physics are so bad, it reminds me of the awful physics present in those low budget Farming Simulator clones. The AI is incredibly stupid. The horse mechanics are garbage. The player movement animation looks terrible. There is no multiplayer. So once you beat the story, this game will go back to the shelf and collect dust. Charging $60 for a game with no replay value is a cashgrab. I would have been fine with no multiplayer if this game had so much depth and content like Red Dead Redemption 2. Unfortunately, all you can do in the open world is ride a horse and play a stupid flute. I recommend you get this game until it drops to $15 or wait until it's free on PS Plus.




Gameplay nada demais,gráficos mas ou menos,Bugs,Glitch, missões Repetitivas. Esse Game ganhar nota máxima na Famitsu é uma Vergonha,Só mostra o quão o Povo Japonês é Babá ovo deles msm !!
jogo é muito bugado os gráficos uma mentira e norme da e3, mais vai ter 90% de usuários apoiando sem nem ter jogado o jogo feito correndo sem qualquer qualidade.

Spectacular, colorful graphics are used to hide all the technical bugs: floating characters, almost no interactions between character and grass or water etc. Mediocre and repetitive gameplay, easy combat, retarded AI. Poor man's Assassins Creed. Seriously I cannot find one thing that game does better than AC. But you know, it is exclusive and not Ubi game so the scores are highier.

I really don’t get where the user high scores are coming from for this. It’s a very mediocre game. I get fed up after 10hrs of the terrible graphics and boring gameplay. Rinse and repeat etc etc. The cut scenes are terrible with the characters dead eyes. Jin is the least charismatic character in video game history. Boring. Save your money.


I am extremely disappointed with this game. Sony has been publishing something that in the end does not correspond to anything shown in the trailers. very poorly optimized game and graphics far below promised. seriously a good game if it weren't for sony's lies. The story is ok despite cliché and the gameplay is cool, except for the moments that the camera gets in the way.

Ну накину бал за траву, а больше не за что, куча клюквы, деревянный геймплей, который уже был в играх 10-ти летней давности, а сюжет просто состоит из пафоса...

Games looks great but adds nothing new, repedative side quests make the game world feel void after a while. Overall boring story. Highly disappointed in this game.
Gráficos mentiroso se comparar com o que foi mostrado na e3 de 2018 propaganda enganosa ! Típico da Sony e a marca PlayStation ! Em fim jogo bom mas deixa a sensação de ser enganado novamente ! Duas decepções com e essa e the last of us part 2

It is a painfully generic open world game that does its best to hide just how generic it is by painting over it with a cool setting and fancy paint. But at the end of the day it’s a generic as **** open world game, just isn't a good game. For a title built around stealth and action, look how abysmal the enemy ai is, and how overpowered grass is when it comes to hiding. You can run, duck, lose enemies, kill em, run, duck, repeat. It's ridiculous.


Melhor jogo de temática samurai feito até então. Pontos fortes: - História - Gameplay - Exploração Me emocionei jogando esse jogo, apesar dos problemas com câmera, não diminui em nada a experiência

This game has excellent graphics & game play. It is an easy game to get all the trophies in and do every upgrade. The story is just average with weak plot, good characters, and no branching narrative. Players aren't given one story choice until the end. That is cheap way to write an RPG with no branching narrative. There is a lot of cut and paste quests (hot springs, haiku, & shrines) and random respawning fight encounters. I wish they would fix the ammo bug where you lose half your thrown and ranged weapons when ever you visit a hot spring.
WOKE deceiving GARBAGE with FEMALE SAMURAIS.. which even has a FEMALE MASTER SAMURAI.. belonging to the Adachi clan (安達氏), called "Masako Adachi", something that is not only completely BS from a historical point of view, but that is also culturally insulting! Btw.. the Adachi clan is not fictional, they truly were relevantly powerful during the Kamakura period and descendants of "Fujiwara no Yamakage
This game is a mix between assassin's creed breath of the wild and shadow of mordor. + A BIG DOWNGRADE OMG THEY LIE TO US, the quest suck, there is nothing to do in this open world
Looks pretty but does not nothing rememberable, and the terrible dubbing and stealth mechanics are laughable for this day and age. Repetitive quest get boring quickly and make the game world feel empty. In short save your money and don't buy this game.
It's like if Ubi made AC game with Far Cry progression - do stuff, get upgrades. No colored gear and crappy RPG systems that makes no sense, no levels and all of that. Combat feels very impactful.

Extremely repetitive game with a poor AI. It beautifully graphics when there are no light make the game to look extremely plastic thanks to it poor texture quality. I really do not recommend this game
The combat is extremely generic and maybe even worse than that. The combat and mechanics overall are just very bland. The story is fairly decent though. I’d give it a 6, maybe a 7 for the story. I’m just very disappointed overall with this game.



muito desapontado. Uma tentativa de recriar um shinobbido mas com graficos muitos maus , nada como mostra no trailer e grandes quedas de fps para 80 euros é uma desilusão total
I can’t rate this game anything higher than this. It’s pretty racist how an American company thinks they have the right to depict the culture of racial minorities. The fact that so many people don’t see a problem with this shows that we still have a long way to go in this country.

Generic open world game #2345 where you take over generic bases and search for boring collectibles. Nothing remarkable and frankly does not even compare to TLOU2.



Gráficamente y jugablemente me gusta pero lo malo es la historia,no que sean malas sino que son Misiones repetitivas y tiene un mundo abierto muy muy aburrido y vacío solo una que otra casa y npc enemigos tirados por ahí

The game is very good really the samurai games are not popular in america or europe but now they have managed to transmit the folklore of japan and especially the landscapes really their side missions are not good i would have liked 60fps maybe they should add more npc and animals hopefully in a patch they do it and improve for ps5 I give it an 8.5 to 9 if they get to repair that maybe an improvement in difficulty since it was easy for me to pass the game.

While the game is initially pleasing in Act 1. By Act 2 the entire game changes. It becomes less enjoyable and far to annoying. The controls are sloppy at best. This leads to much frustration and a desire to not continue. It seems very rushed, and not finished. This will be a bargain bin game in 2 months, wait til then. Absolutely zero in the stance and controls. This game screams to give it a mini map.
Horrible graphics, poor history and the only way to get a better feel for the way that you are a big fan of the game No way to play this game because is very weak

The textures are really low the ai is really dumb the battle system is very the story and cutscenes feel very dull it also has a FPS problem very unpolished game
Pese a ser un juego de 2020 no lo demuestra en hechos ya que su jugabilidad no es deslumbrante para la época, por ejemplo Red dead redemption es mucho mejor juego en cuanto a jugabilidad y mundo abierto,no vale la pena gastar dinero en este juego.




Hated it. Its visually very good but everything else had me bored out of my mind. The combat gets boring and repetitive very very quickly. Will never play again.

O jogo simplesmente não é o mesmo apresentado em todos os trailers. O gameplay é cagado, bugs são frequentes, as mecânicas de combate são horriveis


Not bad but completely mediocre. Bland, uninteresting combat, frequent very short loading "cuts" that break immersion as the game loads it's little mini games and cut scenes. Typical, boring open world tropes like collecting garbage, cliche characters, and fetch questing. The gameplay is unfocused with poorly done stealth mechanics one minute and bad attempts to mimic tomb raider the next. Cliche dialogue. Basically it has one major plus, the game is pretty. And it's impossible to critique the game without fanboys crying foul and responding with immature ad hominems, but I still felt the need to voice a dissenting opinion in here because all you ever see is praise like people have never played an open world game before and are happy with another ubisoft clone. I think this game will be forgotten in short order and deservedly so.
O jogo tem muito problemas técnicos e bugs como falta de colisão em árvores, jogabilidade travada e inteligência artificial horrível. Os gráficos tiveram um grande downgrad se comparado ao mostrado na E3 além disso tem sérios problemas de iluminação, sincronia labial etc
Only thing worth mentioning in the graphics... amazing... the controls feel weird the story was mehhh ok... just wish there was more... started good just got borning.

Game is boring as hell. I have played all AAA PS4 games, I think this is the worst of all. BORING is the word that express what this game is. All you do is walk, run, run with the horse, boring story and dialogues, only the first hour of the game is good, like Horizon Zero Dawn, another game I hated. The only good in this game are the art direction and landscapes, very beautiful. I recommend not to buy it unless you like another boring open world game.

a história e muito fraca mais o pior de tudo não é isso, são todos os bugs que tem no jogo deis do cavalo subir sozinho paredes até mesmo a luta horrível que uma espada o seu personagem voua metros




Полное разочарование, не понравилось, язык не поворачивается назвать это игрой, полный провал



Un juego muy genérico y sin acabar , pareciera como que lo pusieron a la venta muy apresuradamente, gráficamente esta bueno pero es un juego muy vacío en cuanto a contenido.

Lo compre en su dia de lamzamiento creo que fue un error, soy muy fan de la cultura japonesa pero este juego no lo encontre muy de mi agrado, no entiendo por que estan alabando a este juego.
Pues lo estuve jugando en youtube a 240P y tengo que admitir que a pesar de la baja resolución, el juego no corria a 60FPS estables. Unos panas me contaron sobre un calvo que pelea en un monte con rayitos de fondo y sinceramente no estoy listo para ver una secuela de sekiro que no este creada por miyasaki.


O jogo é uma mistura de elementos, positivamente explora bastante essa pegada japonesa, a jogabilidade é boa, a história tbm, mas negativamente tem vários bugs, downgrades, e a câmera tbm ñ ajuda muito na hr do combate, mas o jogo é bem interessante
Sucker Punch is back at it with another fantastic game, that captures all the fun and interesting aspects of a samurai fighting to regain his homeland and honor. The game feels great to play, and I have not been able to put down the controller since I got it! Best game of 2020 so far.

É um espetáculo jogar em preto e branco, sensacional,......... ...............
VeryhrjrhdbdkfkfkkfkdkdjdjdjdjjdjdndncbhcyccuuvviisDuixudjdnsbzbznznzsjsjslslsodinx


Are you ready for the future of gaming? This is the game of the decade. GoT brings us stealth, samurai fights and a story that honors Japanese history and culture. A truly superior game when compared to ANY recently released games. The paid shills are whining and review bombing this game because a western game company created it and it comes at the time when the shills were trying to hype up a turd (LoU2) and GoT is positioned to become the game of the year with ease. This game is rich in Japanese history, which honors the Japanese. After playing several days now, I feel great. It is an exciting game, with masterfully drawn graphics. This game hit LEGENDARY status in Japan after being released a few hours few hours. So the SJWs masquerading as gamer critics are just trying to steal the thunder from the greatest game of the DECADE. The intuitive controls makes beginners look like samurai masters. The story doesn't force political narratives and cartoonishly manly women in your face. This game has grit, honesty and is overall blast to play. Anyone giving this less than 10 isn't a gamer (probably an SJW upset over this games popularity attempting to review bomb a far superior game) or is a paid shill still trying to hype the depressing TLOU2. Unlike TLOU2, this game has excitement and action in the believable and historical accounts that make up the story. No tranny simulators here, just a sword and a man and hours of excitement.


Easily the best game I’ve played all year! The art style and graphics make me want to go back in time and live in the time period(minus the danger lurking around every corner). This is how a video game should be in 2020. It’s fun, the story is dope, the customization is amazing. I love switching up my play style and my look on the fly with different outfits and charms. I don’t think anything is perfect but this game gets a 10 from me because it’s very comfortable to just relax, play, and take in the views!

Absolutely gorgeous graphics, looks like a water painting in motion. Tight Controls, brutal combat and a beautiful soundtrack. Amazing game, a GOTY contender for sure.
It’s a masterpiece. Hands down game of the year. The best thing about this game is it’s combat it is very addictive. This is one of the most beautiful game I have ever played.
amazing gameplay stunning graphics fantastic story great voice acting definitely a contender for game of the year in the top 5 games for PlayStation 4
El juego con mundo abierto mas hermoso que he jugado, increible que lo corra la ps4 fat (ya la tengo desde hace 7 años y tal vez muera jugando este juego XD) la historia es super epica ÁaaaaaaaaaaaasSashhffgg

I can't say, that this game is perfect, but anyway I liked it, mostly because I like Japan culture and setting. The reason why I can't rate 10 - a little bit strange fighting, some bugs. But visually this game is the best I've played. Fighting It looks amazing, but still has some problems, like camera and enemy targeting Graphics Its really good, grass, shadows, wind, particles - everything looks perfect, and game runs good on ps4, without any lags, freezes and fps drops. Also ps4 is not that loud, as it was with Jedi Fallen order or CoD 2019. Music Its just wonderful. Especially, if you like Japanese music Dialogs Im not sure, 'cause I play on Russian, but I think they are ok Scenes Scenes look fantastic, like in old films of Akira Kurosawa To some up, I wanna admit, that this game is more about visual enjoyment, not gameplay You should play it.
Great open world game I love this game because of the amount of upgrades you can get and how good the story is characters are very well told my final thought is that this being the last big ps4 game it manages to deliver
Uno de los juegos más bonitos de la generación, con una recreación espectacular del Japón feudal, aquí no encontrarás jefes sobrenaturales estilo dioses o monstruos, es un juego puramente historico, monstandote la conquista de tsusima por parte del ejército Mongol, mecánicas nuevas como la de desplazarse por el mapeado sin HUD basándose en seguir el viento, por otro lado tenemos los típicos niveles y habilidades de cualquier juego RPG del estilo, el combate no llega a ser una innovación pero destacan las animaciones y las ejecuciones, tanto como las posturas de combate, el modo historia no está mal pero sigue siendo genérico y sus misiones secundarias pueden llegar a ser repetitivas, lo mejor es el arte y el apartado técnico
Best Sucker Punch work. Really nice game, which brings beautiful world, kendo’s fighting system, some interesting questions and very strong atmosphere of middle aged Japan.
Отличная игра. Ждал что-нибудь в таком духе про самураев и без мистики. Игра выгладит красиво, красочно.


actually fun to play , high replay ability and they at least didnt kill a main character in 1h only into the game unlike some other game that idont want to say its name lol


This is a million times better than that hot garbage TLOU2 aka The Last of Men. There aren't narrative and politics used to destroy the story. This game is actually fun guys. Worth the investment. A game made for the gamers and the people. GOTY. Sound and graphics are second to none.


Deep, fun, epic. Visuals are stunning, you will spend hours in meditative walks, enjoying beautiful scenery of GoT. Gameplay mechanics a bit boring in the beginning, but gets better after several hours. The story is simple yet delivering, you believe in character, share his motivation and you want to push forward. This is one of the best PS4 exclusives along with God of War and Persona 5. GamePlay 9/10 Visual 10/10 Audio 10/10 UI/Controls 8/10 Story 9/10 Overal 9.5/10 This game is so amazing I feel bad it won't get the attention it deserves coz of Kneel Druckman's garbage that was promoted all over. Also, game journo proved to be people who do not play the games.
Не шедевр конечно, но очень крепкий проект. Нет «SJW-повестки», сразу 10 баллов. Молодцы разработчики.
This is the game that the people needed so hard after the crap of TLOU 2, thank you very much Sucker Punch, so much good art, visuals, story, gameplay, etc.

Been playing games for 26 years and this is the first one that was so good, I had to create an account and give it its due. Huge open world, terrific combat, and hands down the best graphics I’ve ever seen in any video game. I’ve barely used photo mode in any game before and I have around 100 images saved already from about 15 hours of playing. Just do yourself a favor and go buy it... trust me, you won’t regret it.

The game critic and critic of films and TV series are in touch. What can I say about the game? She did not live up to my expectations. What we saw in the gameplay trailer - Very beautiful graphics, in the game itself they cut it down a lot, there was no presentation about the gameplay and plot - we liked the plot and gameplay. I advise you to wait for discounts, and then buy the game - there is a chance that you will not like the game.
Usually i get bored really fast of open world games, with their repetitive, grinding gameplay. I thought Ghost of Tsushima its gonna be the same, im gonna play it for a few hours and get bored. It was totally the opposite, im like 20+ hours in and i barely did any story quests, the side quests are sooo well done, the world is amazingly beautiful. Sometimes i was finding myself wandering around, admiring the environments. The combat is really cool, it takes a bit to get used to the controls, but after that, everything flows like a river. Would i recommend it? 100% YES
El Juego es de los mas bellos que he visto en mi vida, la historia y temática es muy muy buena y los combates son distintos y apasionantes, el juego es atrayente de principio a fin, es una "Obra Maestra". Se trata de un juego con una calificación de 9,5-10, prácticamente perfecto en todos los apartados.
finally I finished game.best story,best graphics, stunning visuals, combat mechanism was amazing.just one "MASTERPIECE"♥️♥️♥️
Сначала боялся покупать, думал типичный стиль убиков, с однообразным геймплейем , скучным геймдизайном, но каким то образом игра попала мне в руки, ты понял что ошибался. Сюжет не скажем что шедевр, но очень интересный , второстепенные квесты очень хорошо проработаны и не сбивает с приключенческого настроя, геймплей это просто шикарно, нужно поиграть и вникнуть, особо зашло с навыками , как их приобретать и.т.д. Пусть игрожуры говорят что это худшая игра Пс4, как говориться , не доплатили, а мне зашла на ура!
S hrou som veľmi spokojný je úžasná je tam úžasná grafika super zabíjanie a veľa dalšieho
Absolutely fantastic! This is exactly the game we needed right now. A fun, amazing looking game with no SJW agendas. You can tell the creators put their heart, mind, and soul into this project. I fully support this game, and the studio behind it!
Generic history, horrendous facial expressions, horrible lighting system, good fighting mechanics, but a lot like assassins creed. Notably, the sucker punch needed more time to complete the game.
Such an amazing game would be a 10/10 if the camera and locking on system was a bit better but other than that visuals are amazing, love the music and a **** ton of content to get through.
Ghost of tsushima is the most beautiful game I've ever played in my life. I can't tell you how many times I've randomly had to stop and just appreciate the environment. It's sublime. A lot of the negative reviews are from people who are mad that the last of us 2 got roasted! Don't listen to those people.
I’ve spent some time in the game and so far it’s chalking up to be really good. Combat is something I personally have to get used to so I take a more stealthy approach to things. The world is absolutely breathtakingly gorgeous and I find myself taking a moment from time to time to take it all in. The story has me gripped so far! Not much else I’ll say on that part.. though I have a feeling I’m gonna cry like I did with Red Dead 2, Metro Exodus, Death Stranding, Halo 3, and Assassins Creed Odyssey. Speaking of which, if you’re a fan of the ubisoft formula and like checking stuff off but want something a tad more fresh, this is definitely for you. The only gripes I have are that sometimes the game looks like it came out during this console generations start in regulars to characters. The models don’t look as good as they could be. And the lip syncing is kinda off. (I’m playing on a PS4 Slim that barely gets used cause I mostly play on Xbox. And I chose to have them speaking English with the normal filter on, so if that’s the reason then forgive me XD). When you run through bamboo forests you literally can walk through the bamboo whether on horseback or foot. Like.. it pulls me out of it if I think about it. I only hope they fix it. Because being able to walk through trees kinda breaks the immersion. As well as the fact that whenever Jin pulls out his bow he pulls it out of thin air and grabs at a quiver that isn’t there. I’ve not checked to see if other outfits have the same issue.. perhaps it’s just because I have the traveler outfit on.. but if not then I don’t like that. Please note I’ve only spent a few hours in the game and have not seen it all through yet. This is just an initial review. If you like historical open world games or want to live your Samurai fantasy, this is a must buy. But it definitely isn’t for everyone.
Beautiful Game. Good Combat. Great traversal. Great everything 10x better than joel in one: pro golf 10/10 by a consumer that paid money for this game trust my word over a "gaming journalist

Outstanding game. Lot of passion has been put in it. The battle system, landscapes are incredible by themselves. The musics are memorable. The atmosphere is outstanding. The story is incredible. This game is just a masterpiece


Never played a game like it. The combat, exploration, detail, and characters are all top-notch. The combat can get to feel a little same after a while, but that's a thing in every game. 9.8/10 from me



I am here to review bomb it a little bit because this game is great, Ididnt play it but my 10/10 will stay here. Anyway this game could do better on pc, but no consolewars.
Great game in all aspects. The "journalists" have once again proved to everyone their incompetence. Great music, atmosphere, gameplay, narration of an interesting story, design of the world, lack of faceless heroes. SPECIAL THANKS that this isn't TLOU2
The game os great and have a lot of good ideias but some glitches and bugs ruined my experience.
Gráficamente impresionante y en un principio muy anganchante, desafortunadamente después de varias horas se vuelve monótono y cansado, lo que te mantiene jugandolo después de 15 hrs es su historia, pero falla en muchos aspectos como por ejemplo la dificultad ya que no ofrece un mayor reto y las físicas las cuales debieron ser mejores ya que prácticamente no podrás derribar ni un bambú.

INCRIVEL SEM PALAVRAS PRA FALA DESSE JOGO. MELHOR JOGO DA MINHA VIDA ATE AGORA E DEPOIS DE ZELDA ! INACREDITÁVEL QUE JOGO LINDO GRAFICOS DE TIRA O FOLEGO MEU PS4 PRO não caiu nenhuma vez a taxa. De frames e tanta informação no mapa folhagem grama se mechendo e não cai não trava. A história até agora está encantadora. EU RECOMENDO eu COMPREI 2 GHOST UM PRA MIM E UM PRO MEU Irmao E NOS DOIS ESTAMOS TODA HORA NOSSA QUE JOGO LINDOsa vc viu essa parte, nossa que cenário. Parabéns desejo que esse jogo venda muito e porfavor não sejam hipócritas e vem com frescuras haters pq o jogo e de tira o fôlego . Melhor jogo do PS4 até agora . Gráficos nota 10. Jogabilidade fluida. Cenários perfeito temática incrível. Nota 10 pelo load. Ou melhor que load??? O jogo não tem load. Achei que o tlou2 seria oq mais agradaria e não foi ghost pra mim até agora melhor jogo da geração!! Parece muito Zelda lembra muito com gráficos reais e vou fala não finalizei o jogo mais estou dando 10 pelo excelente trabalho que esse time teve pra fazer esse jogo . Gráficos 10 Jogabilidade 10 Historia 10 Diversão 10 Exploração 10 Replay 10 eu tenho certeza que vou joga de novo! Muito incrível eu amei mais que Horizon zero Dawn. POR FAVOR FAÇA UMA DLC PQ EU quero muito mais ! Missão segundaria muito bem feitas. Que segurar o jogador e prende a querer ajuda as pessoas no mundo. Não aquelas missão chatas tediantes que faz entregas . Resumindo SUPER RECOMENDO VOMPRA SEM MEDO SOU KUITO FAN DE JOGOS DE MUNDO ABERTO MAIS ESSE JOGO ESTA INCRIVELMENTE DESLUMBRANTE .


El juego no es bueno. Tiene un control pésimo debido a la cámara, en una accion tan simple como ir recto con el caballo sé complica por la cámara usada. Con el joystick adelante como en todos los juegos del planeta tierra, y el caballo va en diagonal, lo hacen tan cinemático, que se olvidan de lo que es. Exactamente igual a los combates, el sistema es sencillo pero bueno, pero es que la cámara lo rompe todos.

Very good game, the gameplay is on point and so is the story... It is not on the same level of RDR2 or GoW (2018) when it comes to details, acting, graphics... it simply doesn't have the same amount of hard work behind it. 5 ebing average, this game is a solid 8, must-play! (upped it to a 9 because of salty tlou2 fans, but its an 8)

Very good game...but i feel like the Game wasnt ending at all. Moves of players are so mechanic,map Its boring and si repetitive... Combat system its very good ... I have the same sense that with Days Gone...a very good game but with some much fails
Observação: Nunca me dei bem com jogos de mundo aberto, sempre os achei cansativos e com mapas chatos de explorar. Mesmo assim joguei todos famosos, como TW3 e os novos AC, mas por exemplo não aguentei zerar RDR2 de tão entediante que é. Ghost of Tsushima é o primeiro game do gênero que realmente me prendeu, além do mapa ser maravilhoso é super divertido explorar e descobrir coisas novas, as quests míticas são simplesmente incríveis. Um dos momentos que mais me chocou no jogo foi em uma situação que aconteceu fora de quest. Eu decidi subir em uma montanha bem alta para ver a paisagem, e quando cheguei lá duas mulheres se encaravam. Não tinha qualquer marcação de quest no mapa naquele local, e nem mesmo o somzinho de local de interesse. Pensei que as duas não fossem fazer nada, até que eu cheguei perto e uma delas disse que elas queriam fugir da ilha e me mandou olhar pro horizonte para ver o barco dela. Dei uns 4 passos e fui até a beirada da montanha e não vi absolutamente barco nenhum, e aí o Jim logo falou "Não vejo nada" e eu já achei estranho mas ri. Pois bem, virei a câmera pra voltar pra mulher sem muito entender o que estava acontecendo e ela simplesmente matou a outra com uma espadada, e logo começou uma mini boss fight (ela era bem rápida e aguentou bem mais hits). Eu fiquei impressionado porque isso não era nem side quest, foi algo que eu vi uma única vez no jogo e totalmente opcional e surpreendente. E esse é o mundo de Tsushima, cheio de coisas para descobrir e te surpreender.
This has to be the most fun I've had in a video game in quite some time. The fighting mechanics are fantastic, the world is vast and exploring it doesnt feel like a boring grind but an actual engaging adventure. This game is a perfect blend of stealth, action and exploring.
Vraiment un jeu magnifique sur tout les points. Un monde envoûtant. Des graphisme au top du top. L'HUD ultra épurée. Le contexte et l'histoire génial ! Merci sucker punch !!!

So I've only played for a few hours and I learned to abandon the values of my Forefathers and accept new and alien ideas. Instead of facing men with courage head on, I will attack from the shadows like the female serpent tells me... I need more Soy Milk to rate this game a 10. So far the game has no Abbyzilla so I give it a 7.
Considering this game had such hype, i feel it felt unfinished. Yes the visuals are wonderful in some scenes with pretty leaves. But others look like pS2 style texture shading and robotic animations. -Very repetitive and boring side quests. -Same "wind" sound file plays over and over. -Enemy AI is PAINFULLY dumb and cover from head to toe in blood from one hit. -There is not enough character development, the game just kind of half put together a narrative.
This game is what I expected and wanted an open world samurai this is the reason why I did not buy the other disapointing game I have played the game and enjoying every moment. I cant stop playing the game you have to add this fo your collection.
The combat, graphics and general gameplay mechanics meld into a glorious samurai tale. Sucker Punch has scratched my itch for a great samurai game. The story is wonderfully told and my mind has been blown by the beautiful landscapes, vibrant colors and the attention to detail. I find myself using the photo mode a lot just to look at finer details. This game is pretty difficult at times, but never does it feel unfair. If you love old school samurai movies and love open world exploration games like Assassins Creed, you'll really enjoy this game.
Excelente juego, hace rato que no me enganchaba con uno, ideal para hacer roleplay de un samurai y ninja con el modo sigilo, juego un poco tapado por la prensa pero querido y valorado por los usuarios

I find myself lost in the world just listening and watching. The combat is fun and exciting and I do get my butt kicked but I am improving. It's been fun and I can't wait to see more. I wake up thinking about it, that's one way I know I love a game.
Игра шедевральна, Всем. Начиная с сюжета, где в угоду исторической справедливости отсутствует социальная (впрочем, как и во всей игре) и заканчивая графикой и атмосферой средневековой Японии и острова Цусимы. Боевка это лучшее, что есть на данный момент в подобных играх, и дело не только в механике боев, которая является квинтэссенцией лучших элементов из систем типа "удар-мощный удар-блок-уворот" доведенной до совершенства, но и антуражем, в частности звуком, анимацией, применением различных стилей (они здесь реально работают и необходимы!) - в итоге каждый удар катаной ощущается прямо-таки физически. Стелс есть, он интересен за счет того, что быстр, ненапряжен и является по сути дополнением к бою лицом к лицу. ОТдельное спасибо Sucker Punch за систему сбора ресурсов - Дзин умеет их собирать на бегу и на скаку, не останавливаясь и не тратя время игрока на ненужную анимацию. Прокачка, по крайней мере на высоком уровне сложности, необходима, способности продуманы и среди них нет ненужных (ну кроме наверное помогающих находить различные места интереса на карте). И вишенькой ко всему этому геймплейному великолепию - сюжет и атмосфера игры. Сюжет про то, чем готов поступится человек для достижения важной для него цели, про честь и доблесть, без всяких повесточек. Атмосфера... Это первая игра в открытом мире, где мне хочется передвигаться пешком, любуясь пейзажами, встречая по пути какие-то интересные места и события. При чем все это работает на максимальное соответствие месту и времени, что способствует максимальному погружению в игру. Кстати, разработчики выполнили обещание, и в игре нет однотипных и набивших оскомину сайдквестов - каждый проработан отдельно и имеет свою сюжетную арку. Особенно приятно, что даже захват аванпостов обыгран в духе "случайно кого-то спас, он рассказал, что там-то есть монгольский лагерь, в котором плохие монголы как-то (за 20 часов игры всегда по разному) гадят местным". Из минусов отмечу только камеру а-ля Dark Souls и невменяемый таргетлок (да он здесь есть, но настолько не очевидный, что лучше бы его вообще не было, ибо о его существовании игра тебе напоминает только тогда, когда ты хочешь бить ближайшего противника, а перс лочится на чувака вообще в другой стороне). Короче, я в восторге, чего давно не было, тем более от Сони-эксклюзивов, надо брать!
After spending hours with this game, I have come to the conclusion that this game is truly a work of art ,everything from the combat system, to the story is phenomenal, there were moments that I just had to stop and take in the scenery ,I would gallop with my horse so that I could just be mesmerized by the graphics, and artistry, Jin is a likeable protagonist,and overall I feel that i am playing the game of our generation, play this game ,you won't regret it
The best open world game I have ever played. -Combat is great(I strongly recommend playing on hard mode) -Graphics are amazing -Story is really nice and characters are compelling -Top tier music, really good character progression and revolutionary (almost) no hud on screen most of the time Great game after Tlou2 disappointment.
This is a true swan song for the PS4 and fitting for end of an era that brought us some great games. Thanks for a great game with interesting characters and a gorgeous world. Great Job Sucker Punch.
it's a great game played it out in 2 days very good vehicle line graph graphics great game just aren't normal for singles games just a pity you had to fight your own uncle in the end but you did get the choice if you wanted to kill him or save have opted for dead haha
I wish I could give 9.5 everything is good I would say all of the expectation were met. Graphic is soooooooooo damn good Music is also majestic Gameplay is not hard but also not easy i would say in between dark soul and the witcher ? your dead will not punish you but if you don't learn enemy skill set you will die a lot Story is not that greatest action adventure rpg but it's decent and very well written the only thing i hate and assume everyone hate is that voice acting...normally I play any game with charecter audio from their appearance in this case Japanese. but japanese voice acting is so bad I have to play it in english (which is not great neither)
This is the best open world game I've ever seen the weather affects are top notch the fight is another level and the best part is guiding wind wow no need for map now in open world games it's giving me a feeling of witcher 3 but with huge improvement
This game from the get go grabbed my attention. The epic battle between the mongols and samurai, the remnants of them after the battle, insanely good main plot, insanely good combat, a mix of armours and playstyles, no macrotransactions, beautiful graphics. But there is minir things wrong such as: difficulty being a little to easy on hard . Monce you get used to the combat system mongol forces are easily killed.only strugglesd with duels which is fine, side missions can be abit lackluster but for the most part they were excellent and finally the ending. The ending was fine but should of had an overview of what jin had accomplished and the ghosts army, but this is imo the best contender for goty 10/10

С настороженностью относился к игре и очень за неё боялся, последний экз пс4 как никак. Но к счастью игра с лихвой оправдала ожидания и даже дала больше, чем ожидалось)
Game is meh. The only strong suit this game has are the graphics. Gameplay feels stiff and combat is also meh. I recommend to get the game when its like ~30€ because it isnt worth anything higher than this
Прекрасная игра как и TLOU 2, выполняю впервые в игре все второстепенные задания. А хейтеросы пусть дальше сосут писюн
This is an extremely fun game that has me hooked, I'm enjoying the realistic combat that makes me feel like a samurai in the old movies. It certainly doesn't disappoint if your a fan of Japanese culture and samurai.

Ghost of Tsushima is a competent open world game, and the high point of the game is definitely the sword play and combat. The most fun I had playing the game was when I was surrounded by enemies, switching furiously between stances and beating down a bunch of mongols. The scenery and camera mode are also notable: I imagine GoT’s camera mode will be the gold standard for the next decade. Gone are the days where you take a single still. The camera lets you track shots, move from point to point, change the focal length and depth of field. The scenery is beautiful, too, so capturing exceptionally good shots is a breeze. The rest of the game is pretty average. The story tries to embody the samurai films that inspire it, but is mostly filled with classic video game cliches and forgettable characters—it even feels really forced and overly simplistic. The quest and level design are both competent, but not something to really write home about—the camps are all reasonably the same, the quests all have the same trajectory (and normally two or three fights) with different characters and stories that are almost entirely forgettable or interchangeable. Even the main quest lines conclude with a siege. Twice. In a row. It felt like they ran out of ideas. The biggest disappointment is the stealth component. In a game whose story purportedly attempts to pit the honor code of the samurai against “dishonorable” stealth tactics, you’d think they’d actually put some time in the stealth mode. The AI is just awful—to test it, I one time walked back and forth across the view cone of a guard from one patch of tall grass to another. 20 times. Never once did they look through the grass. The terrible AI really makes the middling level design feel a lot worse than it really is. It’s just plain boring. I found myself just wanting to stick to the samurai honor code because the combat is so much better than stealth. In the end, the game has some good parts. But I think it’s pretty average overall. GoT won’t be replacing Assassin’s Creed as the premiere stealth game, or getting nominated for any GOTY awards, any time soon.
A masterpieces in gameplay graphic and story pacing such a beautiful game. There's no dull moment and fascinating environment. Probably game of the year unless cyberpunk surprise us.
What a amazing game! The artistic depiction of the environment, music and heritage is a amazing world to get lost in. I love the fighting mechanics along with how graphically violent it is. You go from a peaceful beautiful environment to a bloody battle to the death. Also one of the best things about this game is it’s not drowned with SJW politics and virtue signaling! Thank god!
Only thing that’s bad with this game is the Japanese dialogue didn’t match with lips, Jin can’t jump down anything and the camera angle messed you up sometimes but that can be easily fixed in a update/patch
This game is by far my most enjoyed single player game in a year or two. With a mixture of so many classic games, I find myself somewhere in the middle of everything enjoying my experience
Ghost of Tsushima is an absolute beautiful game to look at and and immersive masterpiece, having travelled to japan and seeing the sites doing all the tourist things, I blows me away the small details they have put into this game to make it such a sight to see! The gameplay is also super enjoyable, I like assassins creed style games and I also love the souls series game this game is in no way similar to a soul series game (was hoping for a bit of a sekiro vibe) but also brings a bit more to combat than just assassins creed (I also know Valhalla will be changing the combat so who knows) but the story is rich and also educating, it also shows you the values and the cultural heritage that’s grow japan into the beautiful country that it is today (it really only scratch’s the surface of it but it’s there) This game has been great and looking forward to any additional content they may release

Ghost of Tsushima is, in my opinion and many others', the game that has provided light for 2020. I was expecting a great game knowing the company behind it, as well as it being a Sony exclusive, but not to this level. Not to go too far in-depth, every inch of the island you explore is thoughtfully detailed, and moves in a way no other game's open world does. What I mean by that is every blade of grass you see, or petals falling from the cherry blossom trees, is moving cohesively with one another. This, as well as the fact the game runs in smooth 30 FPS 4K on PS4 Pro, makes for a journey unlike any other. No area (Examples: a pagoda, a riverbank, or even a wheat farm) feels lifeless, and exploring these areas never falls flat or becomes repetitive. Now, moving onto story, Sucker Punch also nailed this element on the mark. Instead of having generic Side-Quests like generic open world titles, GoT manages to craft each side quest in a way that it pairs perfectly, or even is a part of the main quest entirely. Even the "filler" quests in the game handed out from random NPC's also have a purpose, whether it's for future story dialogue or for new character connections. The combat can be praised just as much, taking slight amount of elements from Sekiro, and other action RPG's. Once again though, the combat in the game doesn't feel like a straight rip-off, because Sucker Punch found ways to include a stance system, as well as provide a chain/combo system to allow for moderate difficulty, yet not being impossible to master completely. I think I've gone on enough, but there's really nothing negative except for a couple bugs so far. None are close to groundbreaking, so my score is still going to remain a perfect 10/10. If you have a PS4, do not let this game slide past you. It's a masterpiece through and through!
Absolutely love it there's so many different ways you can take missions The Choice is up to you with a WIDE brighty of skills and experience To use.
Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful game that has really solid controls and (for the most part) interesting characters. The reason for the 9 is the because you can feel the love for what the game was based off of which is old school samurai movies, and it captures the feeling perfectly. I highly recommend if you enjoy beautiful open world games and deep customization or a fan of samurais.
Awesome game. Enjoyable, complex and rewarding gameplay, deep story with interesting, likeable characters, and visually stunning. Worth consideration as the peak of this generation, and definitely the perfect game to cap off the PS4 era.
I Cant believe Metacritic Score its 83, this is when i see a lot of reviewers doing dirty work, to get money from developers. Tlou 2 its a piece of .... with a bad history and tons of bugs and they score 94. Its shame, i think metacritic was a good page to check the scores of games.
Gameplay, story, graphics & sound are all terrific. What puts this game into all time great territory for me is that is has so much personality, style & soul. So many soulless open world games have been made in the last 10 years, this is not one of them. Also, the lack of any and all micro transactions or monetization is a breath of fresh air.
This game achieves what it set out to do and that is to create a fun samurai fantasy. Other people's expectations are just out of line with reality. It is a fun roleplaying open-world experience and you truly do feel like a samurai.
- love the positivity around the game . and the total lack of everything else than THIS game. - love the visuals and the esthetic of the game it really takes you back to the old samurai movies. - i do not like the similarity to assassins creed .. Its solid, its robust, it does what it came from .. Ghost of Tsushima is doing a solid job and accomplished what it wanted to do . but i do not really 100% like what it wants to accomplish. A super tiny bit of Japanese fairytale and magic would have spiced up the game significantly. i think the game will look way way better on PS5 and i am already not happy with some of the textures being flat and pretty boring , but the overall esthetics is GOOD! and nice and the environments are nice but its really limited by what a ps4 can do. But they made the best of ps4. it drags a bit it feel a bit too similar to assassins creed/Farcry/tombraider/last of us 1/etc etc.. so i am a bit special here because i played way too many open world games already so GoTS feels way too similar but my friend who did not play a lot of open world games likes it way more.. so i would like to have a "skip" button for people like me that have seen the entry of the first boss a 1000000 times but then it would break the game for first timers. so i give it a 8/10 , its solid, its good, its recommneded, it does what it came here for with a solid performance but for me, this is not enough for a new game but then its the last of the ps4..

MASTERPIECE! Perfectly balanced gameplay which allows you to chose your own style. The stealthy and agressive modes are both extremely satisfying to play with. Graphics are great and the story is brilliant: long and varied! 10 out of 10 for me. I wish all games had this kind of gameplay style: choice is everything.
while it may not be the best the hardware can do. Ghost is beautiful none the less. The color palette and landscape are amazing. I have just had pure fun with this. The swordplay is awesome and with so many variants never feels old. This game was what I needed after my disappointment with The Last Of Us 2. Games above all else should be fun. This is Fun.

Great atmosphere, characters and storytelling. Graphics that both can look next gen and last gen. Fun gameplay and fighting mechanics, but a bit clunky and glitchy at times. Without doubt one of the better and most special games this gen, but not on a level with the best games this gen like TLOU Part 2, TW3 or RDR2, but more comparable to something like Spider-Man, Days Gone or Horizon Zero Dawn.
An amazing game. The visuals and sounds are amazing, the immersion and story are thoughtful and meaningful. Its like the story focuses on itself, and with this disconnect from the player i can actually become wrapped inside the world and feel like jin instead of the world being forced around me and constantly being told about my actions or morals or some other grand message like alot of open world games, especially sucker punches infamous series liked to do. My only gripe tho, is that it reminded me of how crappy other games and game developers/publishers could be, and that when a studio has time and no excuses actual quality products could he made
Incredible atmosphere, tight controls and faithful to historical information. Ghost Of Tsushima Excells in nearly every way. It is impressive how immersive and captivating the finely crafted world of Tsushima Island is. I dont have enough to nitpick to call this game any less than a 9.5 overall.

easily the best open-world title made. its stunning in every way, you actually spend hours just looking and traveling around. story is a bit simple but it is well told. and side quests are a step up from other open world titles (on par with witcher i feel)
Un juego al más puro estilo Assassin's creed pero mejorando aquellos apartados tales como variedad de misiones y enfrentamientos. En el apartado técnico tanto el musical como el gráfico es magnífico. Da igual cuantas horas juegues, consigue quitarte el aliento y esos acompañamientos musicales te ponen los pelos de punta. En cuanto al apartado de historia, por supuesto es muy subjetivo a los gustos de cada cual, tienes unos toques de guión que generan un enorme impacto, me ha resultado no solo amena, sino que me he quedado con ganas de más, me ha gustado mucho su historia. En la parte final del juego me parece fantástica la elección que podemos tomar, (no la detallo por no dar spoilers) Sin duda Ghost of Tsushima es un juego completamente a la altura del cierre de generación de PS4/PS4 pro.
el mejor juego de samurais que se ha hecho en toda la historia de los videojuegos, además combina muy bien el mundo de los samurais del antiguo japón con el mundo abierto, -Historia muy buena -Combates muy chulos, te sientes como un samurai de verdad -Hace que tengas mas y mas ganas de jugar para desbloquear todo el contenido del juego -graficamente es precioso -los duelos son super epicos -Por ultimo pero no menos importante, el ultimo gran juego de sony en PS4, una despedida de generación para sony en PS4 espectacular

Juego entretenido ,muy bueno visualmente. Buena historia Gráficamente precioso Buena jugabilidad Por contra; Enemigos muy previsibles Dificultad escasa

Несмотря на то, что роликов по игре было немного, игра оказалась очень душевной. Графика приятна глазу, геймплей размеренный, да, немного напоминает ассасинов, но и частично ведьмака. Но у игры есть и своя самобытность. Квесты интересны, а не просто подай/принеси. За ними интересно следить и финалы не всегда можно предсказать. Играю уже который день и не только не надоедает, но и хочется, чтобы в сутках было больше часов)) Рекомендую всем, кому нравится Япония, размеренность и прекрасные пейзажи с хорошими квестами. Единственный минус, камеру бы подальше, иногда реально не видно, что за спиной и куда бьешь или стреляешь)
Un juegaso men buena historia, graficos y jugabilidad no como la cagada del tlou2 con una cagada de historia progre. este ghost of tsushima sera goty chingon


Super fun and exciting. Can't put the controller down. One of the best story games I've played in a while.


This is the first time I have ever reviewed a game. From the immersion to the combat, the visuals, the aesthetic of this game etc. this game is a 10/10 masterpiece and very well may be my favorite of all time. This game does everything open world games do 10x better, while I love Nioh 2 and the different stances, I believe this game takes the cake on that as well. So much to do and such a great story, one of the best fleshed out open world video games and without a doubt the prettiest game I have ever had the pleasure of viewing. Thank you sucker punch for delivering on the hype and showing the world open world games can still be innovative.

Extremely good combat with refreshing progression, pretty good storyline, in a world with beautiful art direction, go buy it. Actually, this game is an example of why good combat should always be a priority. Some of the open-world content "would" get repetitive, IF the combat it usually happens through wasn't just so F-ing engaging. Horrible AI when it comes to stealth, mind you. And graphics are a bit dated. They barely take away from the enjoyment though, not the most ambitious game I've ever seen, but nearly everything it does, it does so with conviction and competence.
This is a wonderful game. Waited for this all my life. Game of the Year so far. Real Samurai with beautiful settings. Perfect gameplay not grinding nonsense.
Beautiful game, nice graphics, playstyle is so smooth and the best part of it is the story, really well written story, the exact same opposite of that fiasco that came out weeks ago.

Gorgeous game! Its ridiculously fun to fight in its combat system. Cool story with historical elements are nice too. Usually would've given it a slightly lower score but since its getting review bombed by SJW trash whoove TLOU2 regardless of it's garbage story or love it regardless of playing it and certainly they have bombed this without playing it either, iI will give it a bit better score to compensate...if only by a point.

After a crappy and dissapointing Last of Us 2 release. It was badass to have an actual good game with epic graphics, gameplay and story!! Ghost of Tsushima and Days Gone are a must play
An amazing game with unique elements. We finally got a proper samurai game and I can't get enough of it. Combat is fun and not just another hack and slash. Slicing through your enemies has never been so satisfying. The map is huge, and rewards exploration. I love the story and how they made the intro/end of missions look like I'm watching an old japanese tv show. The upgrade system of the armor and weapons are great and encourages you to keep exploring, completing missions and quests, to make your character stronger which makes combat even more fun to play that it already is and make you look cool at the same time. The graphics in this makes game looks absolutely gorgeous...helps you get fully immersed into the game. Voice acting for Japanese (the one I'm currently using in the game) is very well done. I haven't tried the English setting on the game. This game is a must have. I've been wanting a great samurai game like this and I'm glad that Sucker Punch was able to deliver just that. Please make a sequel and expand on this universe. I very much look forward to it.

Absolutely indescribably brilliant - exquisite graphics, music, and gameplay I’ve ever experienced, with the best photo mode ever! I keep spamming my Twitter feed with stunning pics. Immensely satisfying action in a gorgeously-realised Japan of old. Can’t believe how good this is! Sucker Punch, I LOVE YOU! Personal Twitter: @Hyrule_Explorer
This game is a Master-Class on how to make an Epic Historical game! I truly enjoyed experiencing this period in Japanese history. The combat is tight and thrilling, but it's the cinematic story that makes this game so great. This is how you tell a story in a video game people! Go buy this game right now if you haven't, heck, if you don;t have a PlayStation, it's worth getting one just for this. Also, if you have played this game, please consider leaving a review. We want to make sure and support games that are this good, and send a strong message to developers! The only reason I say 9, is there are a few bugs at launch. However, these have been minimal, some graphics glitches, etc. I expect they will be patched right out with a q quickness. Cheers
What a game! To be honest, the first few minutes of the game was a bit underwhelming, but it got better and better in time. The story and the characters are nothing out of the ordinary, and the overall writing is only a bit above average. Where the game truly shines, however, are the outstanding visuals and combat gameplay. Lush environments, particle effects, sunbeams penetrating the bamboo leaves, fireflies, moonshine through a wall of fog... Damn... it is so beautiful! I have never spent so much time in photo mode in any other game. Combat is right out crazy and pretty realistic. Both "Samurai" approach and "Shinobi" approach to combat are fun and fluid. So many different skills and gadgets to choose from... GOTY in my opinion.

This game gets alot right. The art style. The camera mode. The side quests and main story. The character customization and upgades. Just great. Having so much fun exploring this world. Great job SuckerPunch
Sucker Punch nos entrega un juego maravilloso. Sin duda lo que más vas a amar de esta IP será la ambientación tan hermosa que puedes apreciar durante cualquier hora del día de GoT, Si bien es cierto la inteligencia artificial no es la mejor, no es una excusa para no disfrutar de esta gran historia. De igual manera, la jugabilidad es una gran mejora, comienzas con movimientos simples, pero a medida que aprendes nuevas posturas y desbloqueas herramientas y ataques todo se vuelve aún más disfrutable. Sin duda, un juego totalmente recomendado que no puedes dejar pasar. Recomendado 100%.

One of the greatest games I've ever played. The graphics are breathtaking and complement the spectacular open world with many things to do, the combat is satisfying and the stealth is fun, the game doesnt have too many bugs and the ones they do have fix themselves! Overall a great game!
Absolutely awesome looking game and gameplay its also very nice. Combat (at least for me) is very satisfying. For me 100% game that deserve 10/10. And its truly worth buying it at full price. Recommended.
A GAME I DIDN'T KNOW I NEEDED! I am loving my experience playing as Jin the samurai! This game is visually beautiful, from the environments to the charm of Japan and story. Very happy i purchased Ghost Of Tsushima im addicted. A+
Its really really really something rare this days , but I wish there was two things ; 1.It was made by Japanese people or it had been made under strict supervision of Japanese masters. 2.the base game was hard and punishes the stupidity .
i pre-ordered the game from PS Store on Thursday last week and have been playing alot of this game since Friday when it was released at midnight and honestly, i'm very impressed with this game. The story, the characters and the fast loading times. Sure some people have said it's like the Japanese version of Assassin's Creed but that really doesn't matter at all. Quite frankly, it's a Masterpiece of a Game.


Замечательный эксклюзив! То что надо! Великолепная графика и сюжет. Погружение в японскую культуру.


After playing and replaying the game twice, all I can say that Ghost of Tsushima is a Game of the Year contender. This is the best way to end the PS4, and better take notes Naughty Dog, because this is way better than TLOU2. The game has one of the most amazing and colorful realistic graphics I've ever seen and the story makes you want to relive those events of the Kamakura era. The combat, sure it can get repetitive at times, but I had a fun time that it wouldn't want me to stop. After I beat the game in English, I've replayed the game in a harder difficulty, but only this time, in Cinema mode, where you get to play the game is black and white just like the old samurai films made by the late Akira Kurosawa. It made me remanence the old classic black and white movie that were made in Japan as a child like Godzilla. In conclusion, this game was a fun game that I would love to replay it again. Not to mention that it doesn't forcefully push agenda and cram SJW into the game *cough TLOU2 cough*. And no, this game is NOT racist towards Japanese, so stop speaking for them and let them hear what they had to say, otherwise, you'll be hated by the Japanese for saying false information and it makes you the racist one, not Sucker Punch.


I just beat this game. Without spoiling anything I will say this: This is in my top 5 video games OF ALL TIME!!! My list of favorite video games hasn't changed for 5 years since Witcher 3 and Bloodborne. I could not believe how addicted I was to this game and how much I enjoyed it. Do not go into this expecting a Sekiro like combat system. Yes there is parrying but not even close to what Sekiro did. And that is not a bad thing. GoT took a complete different route and it is the most rewarding combat system I have felt in years. It feels like a movie is playing out everytime I fight a mob of 10 people. It is fluid, responsive, beautiful, and precise. There isn't a combat system that I can even compare it to. I struggle with pushing through open world games. I get bored halfway through and have to push to just beeline through the main story. Well, Not with GoT. I am close to unlocking everything and I STILL don't want it to end. I wish like hell that there was an NG+ mode. I hate when I see people say this is the "Samurai Assassins Creed". Please shut up with that blasphemy. Assassins creed WISHES it could be like Ghost of Tsushima. I am blown away, Sucker Punch. Thank you for delivering such a masterpiece and living up to the hype.
Сюжет - банален, но мне зашел - 8/10 (+1 бал за сеттинг) итого 9/10 Графика - в целом 8/10 , но +1 бал за очень красивые виды итого 9/10 Геймплей - 8/10 (в принципе не плохо, ничего нового в игре по геймплею вы не найдете, но он играбелен и это очень важно, играю уже 15 часов, пока от игры не устал) Игра не дотягивает до 10 балов. Это не гениальное произведение, она не новаторская. Гемплей, сюжет - все это уже было в играх до нее, НО в нее приятно играть. Она не напрягает и я от нее получаю удовольствие. Потраченных на нее денег не жалко, она их стоит. Игру оцениваю в 8,5-9 балов. Однако я не понимаю людей, которые ей ставят 0, поэтому я поставил ей 10, На данный момент для меня эта игра входит в пятерку лучших игр вышедших в этом году.
Breathtakingly beautiful visuals and art style. Incredibly personal and moving story that will bring you to tears. A must buy for every ps4 owner. One of the best Ps4 exclusives to date with the greats such as GoW, TLoU, Spiderman, etc.

An amazin game, the graphic looks gorgeous, amazing combat system, nice storytelling, and the feel of you becoming a samurai is one of the best things. Amazing.... love it.
this game is worth it! it’s definitely in my top 10 all-time favorite games iv ever played. I was so hyped up two years ago when They announced it and the hype was real it’s action packed Open world The combat is beautiful the aesthetics are beautiful over all beautiful!!! As soon as I come home from work this is the first thing I love to do. It does have a little minor flaws like every great game but noting to big that bothered me. great job sucker punch!!
Twelve hours in, can't get enough of the fighting system. The world is also awesome to explore. One of the most amazing art direction I've seen! I can see how it could get a little repetitive after a while but I'm having a great deal of fun so far! Definitely the best PS4 release of the year.
The environments are beautiful and the swordplay mechanics are solid. The story kept me invested, and the side missions were pretty addictive to complete. Aside from a few minor bugs and some borrowed gameplay ideas, this game is amazing.
After playing some time this open world game I find it worthy of being one of the best games of 2020. The attention to detail in gameplay, music and environments is gorgeous. 9.3/10
Positives are the characters and story including side quests that I found empathetic with the characters like Yuna with good voice acting from both english and japanese voice actors. The visuals are beautiful to look at and at times I stopped playing just to admire the scenery which is helped by not having a mini map to annoy you. The open world just has the right amount of side activities without it becoming tedious and boring. Negative for me is the combat as I'm not sure what they are trying to do maybe with a mix of souls and witcher combat but I personally think they should have went with the Shadow of Morder route style combat for instance changing stance to face one type of enemy i.e. shield enemy and the camera suddenly decides nope heres a spear enemy instead which did become frustrating after changing said stance and having to constantly fight the camera as well. Overall the key word is fun and for large parts of the game I had so much fun with the story, characters, the world and when the combat worked.
Beautiful graphics, the exploration system is my favorite I've seen in a video game so far. The story can sort of be as short or as long as you want it to be, and several innovative features make this a must play for open world games
Ghost of Tsushima is an excellent game. From the graphics to the gameplay to the story it all shines. Talking about the gameplay it is so satisfying when you defeat an enemy. Exploring the open world is so fun. Instead of having a marker on your screen there is a wind tracking mechanic that feels so satisfying. Overall a must play.
honestly this game, has some flaws but despite them i cannot stop loving it. If you want to, this game can be really hard, for those that love a challenge even though as the story advances the game get easier with the addition of the ever growing arsenal of combos and active skills. The games style is really amazing, the beauty of Tsushima that goes beyond just the graphics, and its cinematic style is just .... stylish. This game delivers on "be a Samurai" ... god d*mmit this game delivers that with full marks, you can how ever choose to go around shinobi style but that is (except in some missions) optional. Dont go around thinking this is a ninja game because it is first a Samurai experience and a Ninja game in fifth. The story is above passible, it drives you forward but i could empathize with most NPC's and Jin. The biggest criticism about this game for me is the asynchronous japanese voice track, it is a western production but still i feel disappointed in its terrible synchronization even though the voice acting is the typical high quality that one would expect from japanese voice actors. Overall for anyone seeking some little advice, do some of the first missions where you get assassination and the bow, after that you can really start enjoying the world as the options just open up properly at that point. And that is something i really dont like in open world games when normal things like shops and collectibles(in this one neither are luckily) are behind story missions but you can already explore the world... the assassination i get, but the bow... really?... and armor REALLY? The game is in some areas definitely not as polished as other open worlds like rdr2, rdr2s animations were polished af if you dont provoke it, but Ghost has no dynamic walking animations for slopes and such its always the animation for horizontal movement, for an exclusive that was in the works for 5+ years that is a bit weak, BUT that is nitpicking for a FANTASTIC game experience. Still i wish for some adjustment for the japanese voice tracks, they them selves are awesome but asynchronousness of them are just brutal ;(



My very first online review of any game so I'm going to keep this quick. GOT is a great game to play and you can get lost just enjoying the open world and side quests. The game is visually stunning and is a great game to end the ps4 's life cycle off on. Well worth the money.

Sucker punch has learnt from the years of studios flocking to open world games and has made an example. Combat is cinematic and additional objectives rewarding. Although simple in many ways some games might not be able to afford the stunning elements of the game are left to shine and overcome this. The story goes far beyond what you expect and deserves to stand beside play station exclusives of this generation.
I cant see any game coming out this year matching how much fun I had in my 25hrs with this masterpiece. Infamous was the first game that felt next gen in 2014 to me so its quite fitting this gen ends with another sucker punch classic.


This game is amazing, quite frankly. From the superb cinematics to the gameplay itself, the missions, it's totally addictive ! I generally like open world type games (so long as the story doesn't stink). The combat is interesting enough so as to not become too boring. I can't really find too much wrong with it at the moment :^)
SuckerPunch has created a game to remember. Many people will say: yeah, but it's a basic cookie cutter open world game. But look at the details, the thought of how this game was put together, the things that you can do, everything is brought to a level that gives just that extra touch. Sure there might be some glitches (which I haven't encountered yet) and it might look a little bit different compared to what was shown a couple years back, but this made the game even better. It's a masterpiece and in my opinion for now the contender for GOTY. For those who "hate" the game, I would highly recommend to visit a hotspring and reflect upon yourself.
This game is amazing! Sucker Punch has outdone themselves with this one. The most visually stunning game I've played since God of War, maybe even The Witcher 3. Comparisons to other titles like Assassin's Creed are grossly misrepresenting what Sucker Punch has created here.While I haven't completed it in its entirety, I'm in the third act now and the story thus far has been great! The game is not perfect. I've come across bugs every now and then that have been annoying. I've heard criticism of the voice acting (English) but I honestly think playing with Japanese dialogue is the way to play this game! The combat is so fun and engaging, there are so many options for taking down your foes. A great way to end the PS4 generation! Go buy this game!
What a good game. The story is well done game play is good and the fighting just works but does get old at points. It better the the last of us part 2 because no political is in it. Just a game to take you mind away for awhile. I do like last of us part 2 but don't like political crap in my games
Хорошая игра,графика потресающая,сюжет дай боже,тлоу 2 не в какое сравнение не идет, помойка короче говоря
Absolutely stunning game. Exciting combat and decent story. This is definitely game of the year for me. If you like feudal Japan or samurai then this is your game. There’s no way Ubisoft can match suckerpunch for their next assassins creed game. Plus the load times are amazingly fast for ps4.
Es un juego que te atrapa en su historia y sientes afinidad con el personaje. Tiene una progresión de dificultad que en ningún momento se torna monótono y da placer completar las manos siones secundarias.
This game reminds me of Breath of the Wild and Shadow of Mordor. It doesn't have the best graphics but the art design kills it. Minimalist on the cut scenes which I am so thankful for. I play games to play not watch a crappy movie. Don't care for the Kurosawa mode because the game is too beautiful to play in black & white. The combat is fun and the open world is one of the better ones in a long time. It may be a laid back generic Samurai story but after the horrible that was TLOUII; thank you for a story that isn't just miserable & depressing. The music is great as well.
Honestly this game was amazing! I kept on playing non-stop through the story and doing a bit of the side content and I gotta say, I enjoyed every second of it. Moments that literally gave me chills was unlocking the ghost stance and the end of the game where sucker punch decided to put you in a lose-lose situation lol. Either way, I loved the game and I hope everyone else did too! I can’t wait to complete all the exploration and side content.


The world is absolutely gorgeous and the combat is amazing. The stealth is pretty lack luster, sure you can sneak up and assassinate a handful of Mongols before they catch you, and the long bow is built for steal purposes, but it's not breaking any sort of new ground in the stealth department. This is easily made up for, however, it its amazing combat mechanics. Switching between stances to better target enemies in the heat of battle is just the right amount of high speed strategy I love. The horse is one of the best video games has to offer. The world exploration kind of reminds me of Breath of the Wild but with less things to find. You still get those little rewards though in the form of a Haiku writing session, a fox shrine, or just some amazing views of southern Japan. The Photo Mode is also pretty incredible, I spent hours already taking some amazing in combat and out of combat shots. I have experienced a handful of glitches already. Nothing game breaking but I did have to reset the game when my arms got stuck to my side. And the character models don't look that great, you are fighting the same 10 enemies on repeat which is especially apparent at the beginning of the game when you're fighting the same 3 enemies. Ultimately, I am still absolutely loving this game and it's definitely worth checking out.
Игра словно возвращает тебя во времена, когда ты мог просто играть и наслаждаться сюжетом, никаких намёков на повесточку. Просто история одной из самых великих стран Азии, увлекательный геймплэй, красивые пейзажи - всё это вызывает желание пересмотреть фильмы Акиры Куросавы. Игры должны были стать искусством, а не инструментом пропаганды.
To the metacritic staff .... Why do you allow Digitally Downloaded review on the critic section, I mean his YouTube channel has 1000 subscribers, small website as well, also not even a reliable source, How do you choose them? Can someone explain it?
I was so hyped and excited for this game. I've been waiting since I've seen the 1st trailer. The game had si much potential. Too bad this game turned out to be (at best) a mediocre game. From the very beginning I really could not care about the story. You're supposed to care about some samurai just going to war without any introduction to the protagonist or antagonist. I really couldn't care less and I wanted to skip the badly dubbed cut scenes.. but you can't, so you have sit the often cringy dialogue out. The controls are terrible and feel weird and awkward. The way the character moves ,the combat, the camera.. there is really nothing to keep playing for me. There is a black and white mode, but who cares? I don't want to play grayscale games on my Ps4 pro and my LG OLED. The lack of originality, the lack of subtlety, the tackiness... just makes the game of poor quality. Especially compared to The Last Of Us: 2. The latter game has so much thought and detail put into everything. I think that game might have set the bar too high for games now. Ghost of Tsushima feels lazy, boring and repetitive. Too bad.


Demasiado bueno... me encantó el juego..tiene muy buena historia y el mundo abierto espectacular
I already had high hopes for this game, it looked very promising to me, but wow did it go above my expectations, it is without a doubt my favorite game of this year, I highly, highly recommend playing it. If you're on the fence about this game, don't be, just get it. If I could describe the game by comparison, I would say it's a cross between Nioh, and Assassins Creed. The combat is incredibly fun, and the game is just gorgeous to look at. One of my favorite parts about the game is the Haiku sequences, it's a very unique mechanic and I find to be very fun and honestly relaxing to do. So glad I decided to buy this at launch.

Игра - шикарна! Виды Цусимы заставляют постоянно делать остановки на любование. Музыка, визуальная часть, атмосфера, японская озвучка, боевая система - все это делает данную игру произведением искусства. Давно не получала такого удовольствия от прохождения. Спасибо Sucker Punch, от меня игра года, заслуженно!
This is my first review on here, just felt I had to leave a review over this game as its so good and the bad reviews are unjustified. This game is amazing, yes it has some flaws but the good outway the bad. The combat is awesome and I'm actually exploring everywhere because I'm enjoying the game so much. The game is stunning to look at what a way to a end to the ps4. I can't believe I saw a negative review because this game was made by a westerner portraying a eastern world game. Even the japanese love this game and appreciate the effort and love put in to this game. If your in to rpg's then this is a must, I would proberly rate it above horizon zero dawn and that's a hard game to beat. Awesome awesome awesome.

Very Good Game overall Gameplay in some fights not accurat enough for me. Probably not to noticable on Lower difficulties. But i can just say wow to every other aspect of the Game i Love the World. The story is not entertaining and i just cant stop playing it. Every day since release i played it as much i can. I can highly Recommend this Game

This game is really good!!! I've been wait for a game like this for a long time. Final a samurai game that don't have demons or magic. Just real hand to hand combat. The color and the environment that you run in are just beautiful.you can see how sucker punch really put there passion in to this game. Now don't get me wrong it can get a little boring. But over all it's still fun to play..
Only reason I gave it a 9 instead of 10 is the few graphical and physics glitches. people will clip through walls and floors when dead and sometimes spears like to spin like a top when dropped. Other than that it's an amazing game.
If you've played any remotely compelling open-world, action/adventure game from this generation, you've played this. That's fine. I would expect something more from one of the last big releases for these consoles though.
The good: Good effects, good graphics, character and enemy modeling are great. The wind moving the grass and plants, the leaves falling. Minimalist HUD. The bad: The character does not have any charisma. The "Kurosawa" effect ends soon (as a curiosity and for the photo mode it is fine but to play it it is painful or only if you want a super difficult mode). The enemy AI is painful and even if there are several enemies they surround you and attack you one by one (in turns as if it were a RPG game from the 90s). The physics after cuts and blows are poorly calculated so there are times that after receiving a cut you fly off when you only have to hit the floor. When starting a "story" (Quest) and the open-world disappears leaving you to focus only on the Quest that happens at that moment. Wind, fog, and rain effects fill in its graphics shortcomings and hide loads of textures. Only close-up and close-up objects have detail, the rest is covered by motion blur that makes everything that is out of sight look blurred or out of focus. Forced stealth is present and unless you're re-playing a mission you'll know where the enemies are and where you can surprise them, not before. The Meh !: The wind does not stop passing and the leaves do not stop falling, so an effect that at certain times can surprise in considerable doses, here they use it so much that they saturate the image and after a couple of hours it looks bad and even you ignore. Turn-based combat makes Mongolian enemies observe etiquette when attacking, waiting and respecting their turn to attack, just like a Batman Arkham. There is only one denouement in the story, so I don't expect a second part.
Graphics are ok. Sometimes they look great, other times they are super cringe. It’s like they took time in some parts of the game and just rushed half. Facial animations flat out suck. Cutscenes are laugh worthy on how stiff the characters are. I feel like I've played the same mission at least 100 times now. The repetitiveness is so insanely bad. Gameplay is alright. Best sword fighting game I've ever played.. but it's pretty easy, no challenge whatsoever. . The world is cool to look at. The story is cringe worthy predictable but I think that's the direction they went for (like old style samurai movies). If not, then yeah.. the story sucks. It's a good game with all that said.. but it's got LOTS of flaws. I'd pick it up.. but maybe wait till it goes on sale. But it's a good game to just mindlessly play and have some fun.
Данный продукт прошёл полностью и мне очень понравилось!, хочу продолжения игры. Надеюсь она будет уже на большой земле, а то я хотел бы поговорить с Сёгуном за поцанское хокку.


One of the most beautiful games i have ever played, the fighting system is so realistic and let us enjoy some epic fights, the story is nice. the game make you feel like a real Samurai (specially with the voice of Roronoa Zoro) ... in one word its Masterpiece !
Fantastic game the each area is careful crafted and looks amazing and the gameplay take u the way of the samurai and it’s very different they can do little better in the stealth accepts rest the game is amazing the world is very good better than any open world game way better than red dead redemption 2
Most beautiful game on ps4 can’t recommend enough few bugs here and there but I think it’s excusable when you look at the whole package.Sucker punch really deserves a place among the top developers they proved themselves I think
So far, Tsushima is the GOTY for me, though my expectations about the game were different from what I saw. When I saw the first trailer, I thought it might be a “Witcher” in the Japanese style. However it’s gameplay is more Assassin’s Creed and Far Cry - like. Can’t say that this is a big trouble for me, but actually there aren’t many unique and interesting mechanics, which is disappointing. But the main problem is firstly about the loss of role play. Pretty much all the important choices are made without your interruption, which is a huge minus for an RPG. What’s more, the plot is really boring, it has nothing exciting in it: bad Mongols, good Japanese, tough-cruel mongol warrior, and of course, the revenge. All in all, the game is only interesting for those, who like Japan and its culture, otherwise you can see a copypast of the Ubisoft trash
Having played it since the day after launch, I can safely say that this is so far my choice for GOTY. The visuals are stunning and really makes you feel like you're in Japan during the 1200s. The music and atmosphere fits every scene and place. The combat feels satisfying and varied, without being bogged down by grinding for levels or equipment. It made me want to stop at every fight for the standoff. I normally try to keep to the main story, but this game is similar to GOW in that it makes you want to explore every nook and cranny for more tales. A definite recommendation for anyone with a PS4.
Ghost of Tsushima is a very fun game. The graphics are awesome and the gameplay is just perfect. For the first time, I feel like a real badass samurai!
Amazing open world, the best open world to explore in a game so far, from beautiful orange trees to rain in Misty marshes, every 10 minutes I found myself taking a picture because it just looked great. Story was very interesting and the side missions were very high quality, have spent over 30 hours so far and could easily play this for 30 more.


The best thing about this game is how the fighting mechanics works. Make you feel really good after being disappointed about the last of us part 2. This game got me back! The story keeps you going and never gotten bored . The customization it's pretty good and when you unlock more skills the game literally gets better and better
Отличная игра в отличном сеттинге. Очень понравилась. В полном восторге. Одно из достоинств игры - нет хоккейных клюшек.
Sem palavras , jogo átimo , gráfico maravilhoso,top recomendo a todos.gooooollllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllll
This game is probably the most beautiful game I've played. Due to today's prices, I haven't bought a game in years. I recently bought one other, but GoS is incredible. Combat mechanics are easy to learn, the setting time seems to be accurate. The visuals though, are out of this world. I totally recommend that anyone who likes this genre of gameboy this game. The deluxe version even gives you some really awesome gear. Enjoy.

Good job, Well done, Bravoo. After 10 hours i feel and act like a samurai. This game takes you in and gives you amazing experience. Sometimes graphics look like cartoon images. But no problem. This is amazing game.

I love the game! Looks incredible and the combat is addictive I’ve spent at least 10+ Hours every day since release And will continue to do so until I platinum the game I’d give a 10 but there’s no perfect game good work Sucker Puck! PS Bring back Infamous Lmaooo


Game is beautiful, even on a launch ps4. I've put 10 hours in and i haven't even finished the first act. If you rush through it your gonna have problems even on casual.
однозначно лучший эксклюзив от сони за 2020 геймплей: хорош сеттин: топ графика: топ сюжет: опять же лучший из эксклюзив от сони за 2020
The atmosphere in this game is near unrivaled. I've literally spent the last 5 days exploring the first section of the map and seeing what can be seen, defending the people of Tsushima from roving bands of Mongols, finding collectables and basically just enjoying being in the world that Sucker Punch has created. The combat is incredibly enjoyable, the main story as well as the stories for all of the side missions are well written and engaging and the graphics are absolutely phenomenal. There's just two things that I have a problem with. One is the sound in black and white mode. For some reason they thought it was a good idea to make it mono rather than leaving the sound the same as it was in the rest of the game. It damages the gameplay experience when you can't hear enemies behind you. The second thing is the leveling is too quick. I've only just started act 2 and I've already completely leveled all of my weapons, gear and storage that I have, and have almost completely leveled my character. Like I must be at least 3/4 of the way to completely finishing the leveling of my character and I've got at least 2/3 of the game to go. That's partially my fault because I've literally explored every corner of the first part of the map, but I feel that it's still too fast I shouldn't be as developed as I am at this point in the game. Other than that the game's perfect in my opinion.
Игра отличная! Если вам по душе красота природы на экране вашего телевизора и по вкусу японская культура, то игра должна быть в вашей коллекции! Приятная боёвка, суровые мужики со своими суровыми разборками, качественная оптимизация. Кафе, ребята, можно брать.
Great GAME, nice atmosphere and story, good design and graphics, intresting story. One of the best open-world games of this generation. Samurai go brrrr
The combat and exploration I have been missing in a while is good. The story and world is immersive. Have not finished the game but glad I bought it. I love the upgrading of weapons, the combat I have gotten use to and enjoying after 2 days of playing. This is my first Samurai RPG and loving it.
A good game for a change, well done Sucker Punch. Congratulations ! And congratulations to all gamers across the world who have been waiting for this game, well worth the wait.
This game is fantastic had to wait a day and a half to get playing it my son wasn't giving it back till he completed it. It's very addictive and beautiful to watch game play is great. Not as good as rdr2 but not far of it. Highly recommend it. 8.5


sem duvidas, o jogo mais belo de 2020, não graficamente mas sim em sua composição total e trabalho arrisco musical, lembra animes e mangás quanto a sua composição de cenário.

This game is a great breath of fresh air after the last of us part 2 disaster. Of all the games I've played this is definitely unique. I love how all the white critiques are made at it for taking place in another country other than America, saying that the game is racist and offensive even though them not wanting games revolving around different cultures is racist and offensive. I highly recommend playing this game it's something different and new and really gives you something to be happy about after the lat of us 2 dumpster fire.

Truly enjoying this beautiful game. The gameplay is satisfying in so many ways from the combat to the traversal. Has a few bugs that I hope get fixed soon but overall a great time.
Good so far, will probably raise to an 8 when I finish it. Kinda janky though, and follows the same kind of open-world structure so many other AAA games do. I hate that a lot of the 10’s are coming from people that hated TLoU2. Also for some reason woke NPC’s are complaining about this? I know nobody who is. Chud culture sucks.
Отличная игра, я бы с радостью поставил больше 10, но нельзя :-( Всем рекомендую. 100% must play.
В эту игру хочется играть, хочется пройти все вопросы, исследовать Цусиму. Этот мир очень красив, пейзажи восхищают, особенно, когда ты просто едешь на коне и смотришь на поля, леса, птиц, реки, очень красиво. Боевка приятна, ты чувствуешь катану, чувствуешь лук, очень не хватает расчлененки, скиллы тоже полезные, заставляют чувствовать тебя настоящим мастером самураем. Сюжет также хорош, интересует не только основной, но и побочные интересны, поднимаются важные вопросы жизни. Из главных плюсов это - Атмосфера, пейзажи, боевка, сюжет. Из минусов - нет возможности пропустить диалоги, задания похожи друг на друга геймплейно - убить монголов - поговорить - поездить - поговорить - получить оберег. Для меня игра стала ассасином в хорошем смысле, без псевдо роле плея, интересный мир, скрытные убийства одним ударом, интересный сюжет. Советую не только пройти, но и выбить платину, здесь она для меня выбивается без отвращения к игре
The grafic part is awesome, the models isnt the best but the illumination balance this "problem" the combas is fluent and isnt easy, in difficult the game gets more interestis becoming a challenge. One of the best games for ps4 this year, no doubt.

Amazing graphics, satisfying combat, breathtaking world, amazing world ativities. The game is amazing. I love the Mythical Tales with the duels. Negatives - The story is not the best and i wish there we're more over the top/ artistic outfits.
goty i have never collected all of the collectables in any video game but this game's collectibles are fun and actually useful and I collected everything




This is great game! The story is good. The highlight for me is the gameplay and the graphics. The Open World is absolutely beautiful for a console that is 7 years old. The only issue for me is the gameplay camera which is very clunky and hard to adjust When fighting.
I did AC origins few month ago , and i was disapointed , AC was realy boring , no charismatic heroes , main quest boring... Ghost of tsushima is exact opposite of that , i realy love this game , good gameplay , epic atmosphere , Jin is very cool...
Después de 4 días de vicio inconmensurable me parece una obra maestra, dudo que haya otro juego igual que defina de esta manera la cultura del Japón feudal, top 3 de la generación, mi nota real sería 9'5 pero no sé me permite, como me parece que el juego debería ser mínimo de 9 y estoy en contra del voto de la crítica le voy a dar medio puntito más de lo que creo

I love open world games and i always dreamed to play a game in this setting. the graphics, combat, story everything is amazing i just think that the secondary missions are kind of repetitive, and sometimes boring.

Im about 20 hours into the game and it’s mesmerizing and beautiful. The story seems to be very down to earth and interesting with dynamic characters. The conflict the main character Jin has to deal with (abandoning the way of the Samurai to win the fight) is a great concept which also gets very emotional. I have some critique as well tho, which is why I rate it 9/10 points. For one, the phenomenal cinema mode doesn’t actually allow to take pictures inside of it. You have to make a screenshot on your PlayStation which makes the photo on the base PS4 look very low quality. Also little things like not being able to draw and put away your sword while running are infuriating for me. In general tho, an extremely well made game.
I absolutely love this game! The combat is interesting and engaging, the world is stunning and its an overall fun game. I only have some small gripes, such as the game needed a little more polish (i.e. items just despawning instead of a holstering animation, Jin clipping through stairs as he walks up/down them, etc). This is definitely one of my top 5 favorite games.

Amazing game! The combat feels clean. The environments are jaw dropping and the story is intriguing it reminds me of horizon zero dawn a lot in a good way. If you love the samurai this is the game for you!
really enjoying this game. haven't enjoyed a good single player game since rdr2. the mechanics are very good combat is awesome. only minus is that the ai is lacking sometime but that doesn't clash with the whole experience
Jogo maravilhoso que reune um bioma rico em detalhes de cair o queixo, beleza de se perder em admiração ao decorrer do gameplay.... Combate cativante com variadas formas de invasão e execução de inimigos. Espero que venha o goty
Made this account to write this review because I am halfway in and have been so glad I pre ordered this game. One of the best games I have ever played on my PS4, Sucker Punch nailed this and they deserve all the praise for it. I can't begin to explain the amount of detail they added just look at the photo mode and the overall atmosphere created by Sucker Punch. The combat is so satisfying and the gameplay rewards you for actually exploring and taking the time to talk with the NPCs. A must buy for PlayStation 4 owners who want one more legendary experience before the PS5.
This game is phenomenal! It is more than I could have ever wanted. It is the most beautiful and appealing open world I have ever gotten lost in, honestly, I am not a fan of the open world check off the boxes kind of game(I'm looking at you Ubisoft). This game however does it superbly. The combat is complex but not too complex. I dont usually like hard games but this combat is so rewarding. Once you get the perfect parry down it feels awesome. The story is captivating , all the characters are expertly acted and portrayed. Everything about this game is a breath of fresh air compared to the open world games of late. I am having a blast with Ghost of Tsushima and I believe most people would, I consider this game an absolute MASTERPIECE.
Os gráficos estão realmente muito bons, mas vários objetos no jogo como, árvores e pedras não tem física, o que faz a gameplay ficar um pouco estranha, a iluminação é péssima, a história não te prende, e as cut scenes são horríveis, mas dou nota 5 pois os gráficos são bons e o combate é fácil de aprender e muito interessante

Very good game. It is like a mix of The Witcher 3 and Assassin creed. So far I enjoy it very much. If you enjoyed Witcher 3 you should deffinitely play it. There is no dialogue options but, however the story is good
I am really pleased to play actual game, where you can feel heroes and starting to feel the game. It like goes to your heart slowly from the beginning and you feel the feeling of the heroes through the whole game from small happiness to anger. Even with some repetitive gameplay story makes all for you to enjoy the game. I waited such good game in this style for a long time. Thank devs and all the team for this game.
This is one of the best looking games I’ve ever seen. The mechanics are incredible. The story is great. Well done. Nothing else has come out this year that’s really worth ANYTHING. Loving this.
Ghost of Tsushima maybe isn't best game in the whole generation 4. But best way to say goodbye for this generation. Big thanks to Sucker Punch. That's why we love playing.
Story 8/10 Gameplay 9/10 Graphics 10/10 Ghost of Tsushima is a fantastic game combat is fluid and feel great.Beautiful open world not to big just about the right size also the story solid

Lo mejor del juego es sin duda su exquisito uso de la luz, colores y el sistema de combate. Su mundo abierto aunque vistoso carece del nivel de detalle y riqueza de un AC o RDR2, repite texturas por doquier y los interiores son muy muy mejorables. Los PNJ y los animales... de PS3.

O jogo no seu conjunto é bom... A primeira vista lindo... mas muito feio nos detalhes, exemplos o personagem mergulha sai seco da agua, as pedras e as quedas daguas digna da ps3 etc inumeros bugs que graças a um sistema anti bug nao impacta o jogo. quando vocé fica preso numa pedra o sistema rebobina e vc volta ao momento antes do bug, Gracas a esse sistema que jogo é jogavel caso contrario seria igual ou pior que o daysgone em termos de bug. As lutas sao muito agradaveis excepto a camera e as "flashes que os inimigos lancam" a luz é demasiada forte... ainda assim a luta é muito boa para mim é o ponto forte de o jogo... O tema esta muito bem respeitado Eu aconcelho jogar o jogo sobre tudo se o tema é de o seu agrado mas sem expectativas demasiado grandes se nao corre o risco de ficar desiludido.
Basically assassin's Creed with some sekiro. I didn't have much fun with it. The controls feel loose, you can't lock on, the game puts you through a lot of pointless cutscenes.
Jogo é bom. Mas não atingiu "as minhas expectativas". Muitos detalhes que para mim faz diferença como, movimentação, cenário muito repetitivo. Muitos bugs para um game final de geração. Jogue e tire suas conclusões.

Ghost to Tsushima offers breathtaking graphics with a Immersive story line. Sword strikes are lethal Whether delivering or receiving Character development is one of the best I've seen this year The music score was absolutely beautifulThe game is packed with long hours of exploration in many options for customization So much more to talk about but if you have not picked this game up definitely go get it no reason this should not get game of the year Far surpasses any other game on playstation 4 this year
This game even has crap SJW in it. Masako is a stupid bisexual female samurai. The story is okay but screw sucker punch never buying their crap again. The enemies pretty much dpam attacks an the farther you get into the game brutes will spam attack with shooting you over an over again rather than engaging in any kind of rewarding combat. They tried to copy so many games like niho an assassins creed its pathetic. I cannot see how people are praising this game when its more mediocre than anything an filled with bugs like not being able to crawl out of a tunnel because of the hat you maybe wearing, cut scenes where no one speaks at all, bugged trophies an main missions. All the AI pretty much look the same the entire game an the graphics themselves are subpar with animals looking terribly made an they force you to follow stupid birds or foxes for pretty much everything. Wait a few months an pick this garbage up on sale, but for me i am done preordering anything from sony ever again after ff remake an now this. You got me sold on a hype train but its been derailed now.
Ultimately, Ghost of Tsushima is sadly not exactly the best way for Sony to end this generation as it feels like a game that’s stuck in the past in nearly all aspects and far from many benchmarks set this generation by other open-world games. From the formulaic and typically repeated open-world activities and quest design, I feel this game wasted it’s potential making itself be an open world. It does make improvements on the navigation systems of open-world games, making waypoints be less intrusive and more involved in the environments, but that novelty wore off quite early for me. It also has a pretty flat main story led by unconvincing performances, animations, cinematics, and cliche dialogue that takes itself too seriously. Sadly, even a key part of the story, which is the Ghost stealth, was also weak and outdated. Despite these major flaws though, the game was mostly enjoyable due to it’s great samurai duels, epic battles, and pretty world. [Link omitted per site rules.]
Absolutely fantstic combat system, nice story, graphics and so on! Play on hard for more complete expereince! Sucker Punch, you are crazies! I can feel all these Chanbara and Jidaigeki stuff! You made it! Catchy! Thank you, and sorry for my English :D

One of the most beautiful games ever made, at the end of the PS4 lifespan, no less. Easily worth the full price I paid for the game. The story is fun and you can get many many hours out of the game if you explore all of the other things to do.

I replay this game 3 times and still not bored at all. I love customize my armor, the combat is fun and awesome, the view... Oh my God, the view, man. After Witcher 3, this is my most beautiful open world game.
Отличный проект, пока видел его только на ютубе, но со скидкой обязательно куплю позже
Phenomenal game. The world is beautiful and is a joy to run around in, combat allows straight up fights, stealth or a combination of both, and does them in a way where every cool thing you do is extremely satisfying and makes you feel awesome. Lots of little features to help set it apart from other open world games, it also does a great job of portraying two clashing cultures with care and respect and makes both sides intriguing and engaging. Absolutely loving the story, very reminiscent of classic samurai films, in fact the game just feels like playing one. Having an absolute blast, can't recommend enough.


Perhaps the prettiest game atmosphere ever. One of the best Environment i have ever witnessed and interesting Combat in normal mode. Must play in my opinion if anyone has a PS
The story is amazing. It feels like I'm watching a movie during the cut scene. The combat is pretty easy to get use to. The only conn I see is the camera sometimes is in an awkward position. Other than that, great game.

Que jogo, meus amigos, que jogo. Uma das melhores direções de arte que já vi em jogos recentes. A movimentação em combate também é de se elogiar (não existe sistema de trava. É mira livre, ou seja, se vira na câmera e corta o inimigo). Você que fica "jogando" pelo Youtube e vendo as reviews dos "famosinhos", compre o jogo e faça a sua própria review. Não deixem os outros opinarem/pensarem por você. Não é um jogo estilo Nioh e Sekiro em que você precisa enfrentar monstros. Aqui, o combate é somente com humanos a alguns animais selvagens, nada desse mundo fantasioso dos jogos citados. Existem melhorias a serem feitas no jogo? Óbvio, mas nada que umas atualizações não arrumem. Os bugs (após o patch 1.04) atrapalham a experiencia do jogo? De maneira alguma. Sim, as texturas poderiam ser mais polidas e as expressões faciais também, mas como já disse, nada que desabone o jogo. Joguem com o áudio em japonês.

We finally have an "Assassin's Creed in Japan" only without Ubisoft's usual greedy tactics, and with beautiful graphics, wonderful Japanese atmosphere(Which is surprising given it was made in USA), and great story, which is far more than just simple conflict between attacking Mongols and defending Japanese. This is a game that truly deserves all the praise it gets, and it's a shame Sony instead blew all their marketing budget on that overrated piece of garbage that was TLOU2. This game has far more heart put into it, and it's story than TLOU ever had. The fact that studio and Sony didn't attack people for their opinions on it also helps... Of course game isn't perfect, but it's the best game I played this year so far, so I'm willing to forgive some bugs and few rough edges. And I honestly hope Sucker Punch will make another game in a Japanese setting... perhaps something in Sengoku Jidai era? Involving Oda Nobunaga(As a major character, not necessarily protagonist...), one of biggest badasses in history? That would be awesome.
I have been playing this game for a week now. It is amazing! Way above the 83 score it got from critics. This game is way above your average AC open-world game. Great graphics, great gameplay, and a very interesting story., I strongly recommend this game.

Far Cry + Assassin's Creed + The Witcher + Lara Croft = un grand jeu d'action aventures RPG tactique ! Le fait de ne pas pouvoir locker les ennemis est une brillante idée car cela permet au joueur une grande liberté de mouvements, la maniabilité étant au top ! Visuellement superbe, missions et sous missions variées, un grand jeu qui donne envie de le finir à 100%.
Bardzo dobra gra. Graficznie jest najwyższych lotów. Fajny system walki i bardzo fajna fabuła. Lekko odstają wątki poboczne ale tez można wyszukać perełki.



Awesom game!! The world is beautiful and the combat system makes a lot of fun. This game is one of the best Playstation exclusives. Great job to Sucker Punch
Ghost of Tsushima is what Assassin's Creed would be if it was set in feudal Japan, it will probably have DLC content but it surely won't make you spend money on Helix credits to buy weapons and gear. I'd like to compare to the SoulsBorne games, while there's a season pass for a couple of new areas, you won't have to spend any more money to get a cool weapon or gear. So what I'm trying to say is if you want an AC game set in feudal Japan, forget about waiting for the rumored AC game and buy this game now.
AMAZING. Nothing else I can say! I have bought every single major release to the PlayStation for, and in my oppinion this one has outdone all the others. Congratulations Sucker Punch! I hope you will make a Ghost of Tushima 2, 3... I am mesmerized at the world, music, game-play... I get lost for hours on end just roaming Tushima. The wind as a guide was an amazing idea, and in a very short time it's no longer about checking out points in a map, but experiencing this lively world. I am a fan.
Чудово, атмосферно передана культура та природа феодальної Японії. Дизайн мапи захоплює, очі просто кайфують. Бойова система вишукана та різноманітна, хочеш битися як тру самурай - визивай супротивника на бій, хочеш як ніндзя - маєш таку можливість. Сюжет хороший, зараз на останньому квесті - та не хочеться закінчувати гру. Граю вже тиждень. Рекомендую.
Even though I played on a standard PS4 this game was still beautiful and had alot of stunning views. Only problem I had was that the parkour sometimes wasn't doing what I wanted and Jin randomly jumping into death instead to the edge he should've grabbed onto. Aside this one thing I don't have complaints. Overall this game is one of the most enjoyed games I've played. And the transition from act 2 to act 3 was one of the best cinematic crafted scenes in entertainment. Also the music really pushed the atmosphere of this game. Overall a really really good and enjoyable game. I would give it a 9.5 but since I can only give full scores I'll give it a 10. GOTY for me!
This is the first time I rate a game, this was such an amazing experience combat was awesome the story was good the open world was also good I really recommend the game i already finished the main story line and I’m still playing
Ghost of Tsushima was an amazing experience, the world design and feel of the game just never got boring to me, the fighting and combat felt really great too and the both choices for the ending felt amazing in their own way with a ton of emotion, my only complaint about the game is the amount of times the camera messes up sometimes with things like standoffs, but other than that this is definitely one hell a game that if you have the time and money definitely check it out and enjoy this masterpiece.
This game truly shows how good an open world can be, every space is filled with nature and content, every second is a painting, you will take photos constantly. the gameplay is fun and engaging, it evolves homogenously throughout the campaign and let you complete the skill three instead of forcing you to play the game twice or more like previous sucker punch games did. The combat is very rewarding and have a very good learning curve that will add depth to the gameplay. exploring is immersive and stunning, passing in the same place is rare but when it happens it will look totally different thanks to the amazing live weather change that will revolutionize the view. Very impressed with the visual quality, considering the scale, the view distance is unbelievable, with no pop in of textures.
Ghosts of Tsushima is one of the best open world games to release in a long time. It is a fresh new take at the genre with a compelling narrative, addictive gameplay, and stunning visuals. It was so refreshing to play a game that told a story that was PURE story, fiction at it's best!

Extremely fun open world game! The world is beautiful, and the combat is amazing. Story is simple, but effective, and really gives off a Kurosawa vibe, and I love it. Customization is great, too! Large variety of outfits and charms make it really fun and gives incentive to explore! Side quest structure is also great. This game has the best photo mode I’ve ever seen, too. Thing is, if this was released a few years ago, I would’ve given it a 10. Some of it’s features and mechanics seem outdated, such as the overly-simple stealth & it’s extremely exploitable and predictable during stealth. I’m a stealthy boi, and this is the first game with a stealth option that I chose to go for the combat route instead. A few others are the cutscene-to-gameplay transitions, some conversation cutscenes resemble the lifelessness and stiffness of the ones in AC: Odyssey, and some missions feel to much like a to-do list that I just have to keep ticking off boxes. Overall, I highly recommend this game. It’s a lot of fun, it let’s you live out your samurai dreams, and it’s a strong end to the PS4 generation, but nothing really groundbreaking.
not sure about 9.3 user score this game But its game is not bad. Good visual and sound. Combat system is intresting and looks realistic.(on hard) from the technical side, the game looks very medium(i mean animations and textures) Open world similar like ubisoft game. Story is like movie from 90's. Looks very simple and boring. But if u like Japan its only game what can get you historical medieavel japan setting so im think 8 or 8.5 its realy what deserve this game. Good ending PS4 generation. Thx Playstation for best games.

Me fascinó la ambinetacion del Japón feudal, los estilos de combates y técnicas poco honorables. Me recordó a las antiguas peliculas de samurais. Y justamente es en lo que mas destaca este juego. Obviamente me hubiera gustado que la historia fuese un poco las larga y más estilos de personalizació tipo rpg.
Very good games,,,........................................................................... .. ...........,....... ..... .........................

This game is average. Nothing really special about it at all besides the guiding wind. None of the characters are particularly interesting and neither are some of the plotlines. Traveling the world is really boring and typical of many open world games. You set a waypoint, use the wind to guide you and 8/10 you'll run into a group of bandits or mongols to fight. There are enemy bases and fox dens to stumble across as well, along with hot springs, etc. The graphics should not look as off as they do. This is suppose to be the PS4's last big game and it looks like this? Gameplay is fun but generic and standard. Nothing new there. Animations seem like they weren't finished. Weird glitches like npcs bouncing up and down in corners. Facial animations are bad, and the words dont even sync with the mouths of the characters half the time. There are dialogue options that pop up sometimes, but you can only choose between 2 statements and no matter which you use, it doesn't have an effect on gameplay, the story, or even character dynamics. This game has been hyped to hell and it really isn't anything special. It plays and feels similar to Assassin's Creed pre origins, however, unlike those Assassin's Creed games, Ghost of Tsushima doesn't have intriguing characters and it doesnt have much of an engaging story.
Слабый и предсказуемый сюжет. Никаких эмоций после финала. Сюжет в призраке выглядит каким-то детским сочинением на самурайскую тему, если сравнить его с крутым сюжетом недавно вышедшей непревзойденной The Last of Us Part II. Всё слишком однообразно. Сюжетных заданий очень мало, а от побочных они мало чем отличаются. Наигравшись в побочные задания ждешь хоть какого-то разнообразия от обязательных, а его просто нет. После битвы с предводителем монголов возникает такое чувство, что просто зачистил очередной лагерь. Цепляет очень красивый окружающий тебя мир, но при этом он сам по себе мертвый. Исследовать особо нечего, кроме как побегать за очередной лисичкой, порубить бамбук, всякие там столпы чести, утомляющие хокку, горячие источники, и многое другое. И всего этого понапихали в таких количествах, что я просто реально устал платину добивать. Если в том же человеке-пауке ты можешь по пути от задания к заданию все активности к финалу игры выполнить, то здесь тебя в буквальном смысле завалят ими. Ещё что раздражает - монголы просто на каждом шагу. При всем желании исследовать тебя заставляют сражаться, сражаться, сражаться. Неужто они считают, что мне после всех побочек и лагерей этого не хватило? God Damn Mongolians! Но есть и хорошие побочки. Мне понравилось взбираться на святилища, крутые и динамичные дуэли, истории древних героев и персонажей. Я бы даже сказал, что истории персонажей гораздо интереснее самой сюжетной линии. Зачищать лагеря при помощи стелса не очень интересно. Даже с полностью прокаченными навыками надоедает спустя пару-тройку заходов. Сами бои сделаны очень круто, но слегка поехавшая камера часто меняет исход событий не в твою пользу. Не хватает режиссуры и постановки, но непередаваемая атмосфера берет свое. В игру все таки хочется играть, она тебя цепляет и не отпускает. Итог: Игра хорошая, но близко не шедевр.
It's not perfect, but it is an "actual" masterpiece. The critic review of this compared to The Last of Us 2, shows how out of touch gaming journalist at major outlets have become with gaming and gamers. Stick with the independent outlets and YouTubers.
1 of the best game of 2020 great gamplay very good animation good seting defanatly 10/10 P.S. Last of us 2 **** worst game ever dont buy it buy this ;)
I like the artstyle. Pretty everything else is just so-so. I mean...really.. if one tries to re-open open word pandora box again then I really expect something new. A kind of unique experience. Don't get it wrong - this is ok game, it would have been classic say 7 years ago.. but today? As of 25 July 2020 it's just solid in my book- nothing more.
Jogo tem sérios problemas com o mundo aberto, missões extremamente repetitivas, graficamente bom mas não salva quando a estrutura do jogo está atrasada 10 anos em comparação com outros jogos de mundo aberto.
amazing game, beatiful graphics, fun combat, massive open world, tons of collectibles. this game is a love letter from the devs to everyone who supported them all these years. Worth every penny!

Nice colorful aesthetics of the island and good fights, but weak in texture/details (the upgraded weapon still looks the same, for example), primitive AI, and classic boring sidequests. Overall good game, but nothing special. 7/10

Ghost of tsushima is a fun game, cliché story, cool characters, horrible stealth, terrible artificial intelligence, lots of polishing problems, facial expressions, bugs, bad textures, bad animations, artistic direction doesn’t match the rest because it’s very good, combat and cool mechanics, repetitive side missions (some), in general it’s good if they fixed the game, it’s even better, congratulations sucker punch, I need the continuation of the jin’s journey (platinum is easy just takes a while).
1. The graphics are mediocre. 2. The lack of a lock on for enemies makes fighting more difficult in a not-so-fun way. 3. There is no option to skip cutscenes. 4. If you enter a boss fight, whatever amount of resolve (resolve is your heals, and the energy bar for special moves.) you have, that is all you will ever have in that fight, so if you think "let me just back out, fill up my resolve, then come back and try the boss fight again." That is not happening. You must abandon the entire mission to do that, then come back and start from the beginning of the mission. 5. The game is very buggy. Keep in mind these don't happen all the time, there's just a chance you may encounter them. - If you assassinate an enemy as they are about to notice you, there is a chance that it will do the full assassination animation while the detection bar will still fill to red alert, and after the animation is done, instead of dying the enemy will begin attacking as if he was never killed. - if you realize your charm slots aren't being used to the best of their capabilities during a boss fight, and you pause the game as soon as you load back in from a death and adjust them, when you unpause, you'll see that resolve bar you came into the boss fight, that was full with 6 orbs, and it had stayed that way the past 14 attempts...... is now empty. - at one point my character became a walking weapon. His foot would just barely scrap a fire barrel and it would explode. If i approached a horse or any npc that can take damage, i would bump into them and you'd hear a slicing sound, they'd react, and they'd be low on HP. - idk what this was, but when i went along a mountain side it went from a dark foggy night, to clear with a bright moon, so i turned around and it went back to foggy and dark again. I went back and forth a few times and when i looked up the moon was swinging wildly left and right in the sky. -i don't think this was intended, so I'm calling it a glitch. When climbing down a wall, you will occasionally land on a ledge, but if you don't immediately let go of L3 and push R2, your character will take the biggest jump he can off that ledge. Generally killing you. -There's more, these are just what i remember off the top of my head. 6. Enemy NPC movements are unrealistic and it makes the game unnecessarily difficult. Case and point. The enemy swings his sword at you, you dodge to the left, his body GLIDES to the left and maintains the same distance from you it did before you dodged, so even though you dodged, you still get hit. This is especially troubling when the enemy does a 9 hit combo and even though you rolled 10 feet away from him, every swing he makes GLIDES him closer and closer to you, until you get hit, and since it's a 9 hit combo, you get hit again and again. 7. This ties in with #6. In a boss fight there is an invisible wall, now usually in a game like this, if you hit a wall in the boss fight, you can still move at normal speed to dodge in another direction. However, say you get pushed into a wall by one of those ridiculous combos that make the enemy glide right next to you. When you try to roll out of the way, the invisible barrier seems to stick to you like goo, because your characters movements become sluggish, like you are caught on the wall. This usually results in you getting obliterated. 8. This is me being petty, but i hate spearmen and archers. I think it's dumb that the starting samurai armor is irreparably damaged, and after you get a new set to replace it, the old broke samurai armor stays in your inventory. Same with the fact that you cant fix the starting gear you get with an outfit, you have to upgrade the outfit to a slightly less broke but still fairly imperfect counterpart, like maybe i want the same straw hat but without holes, and how come an upgrade gets me a cooler looking hat, but the hat is badly damaged or flawed in some way (looking at you Ronin outfit.) I do appreciate now you can still reequip the previous hat though. 9. On occasion during a fight you will hit the dodge button repeatedly but your character will just stand there and take damage. 10. Also on occasion you may be mashing the attack buttons, and your character will just stand there doing nothing. I've seen this particularly when your character is exchanging words with a boss. You can move, but you can't attack while they're talking to each other. 11. The inventory upgrades are severely limited, and the upgrade requirements are unrealistically high. Like if you start off with 3 kunai, you'd think the end result is a max level 9 kunai pouch..... but no. You have to get 30 BEAR PELTS (Do you know how large a bear pelt is?!) For an extra 2 kunai. Same with the fire arrows, and explosive arrows, and..... well, all of it. Except regular arrows for the half bow. Flaws aside the combat is fun, the story is great, and the map layout is beautiful.
Достойная игра, для PlayStation2. Очень красивые пейзажи. Есть красивые бои. Красивая природа. Но всё остальное кашмар. Персонаж проходит сквозь бамбук. Даже старый ассасин делал вид, что задевает объекты. Камера часто улетает в кусты, за стены, за забор и ничего не видно. Катсцены все одинаковые. Стоят трое и разговаривают, только рты шевелятся. Скука. Побочные миссии примитивные, найди и убей. А стэлс вообще что-то с чемто. Противник не замечает взрыв в трёх метра, но слышит как пролетает стрела. Ужас. Даже нет анимации, как порсонаж прячется в бочке, просто тёмный экран и он в бочке. И это эксклюзив пс4? Говорят что игроки специально занижают оценку специально, а я думаю это заслуженно.

This game have really developed side quests, mechanics and battle combat, beautiful audio-visual design but it's over here too many bugs as well, subtitles sometimes don't showing up (in main quests and in side activities) it's too easy to glitch our protagonist when we trying climb somewhere, but from another hand this sandbox has very immersive navigation system which should be in more games than only this, On the beginning I was wanted give this title a 9 grade but it's already more than week after publication and still have too many bugs with subtitles
I have very mixed feelings about this game. Pros: Beautiful graphics / locations / details and shots; Story and character development is taken care of - it is a real pleasure to dive into next adventures; Limited gear - you won't be wasting time to search for hundreds of crafting ingredients and consider, if sword B++ is better than A+ Cons: Gameplay is nothing new. I have a feeling like Ghost of Tsushima is just a huge mod for Witcher 3/Spiderman - very similar gameplay and skills/special mechanics. Have not found a way to exit cutscenes - after 50th saved peasant warn you about dangerous bandits in a cutscene, you will have enough.

Almost gave it a 7 or 7.5, but the ending saved it for me. I platinumed it so there is alot to say. Combat was very well done, never felt boring, but sometimes repetitive. Very hard to make combat this great and fun in an open world game. Story was good, it was dark, gritty, and satisfying 'till the end. All the characters were extremely well done. The game actually gets you to feel the emotions, like with the Yuriko quests. The graphics alone put this game at an 8/10. This will be the few games that you will actually use the photo mode, trust me. The character customization is fun and is actually good. Meaning they dont look like sh*t. The white traveler gear with the headband of death was my favorite. Tracking quests with the wind was something I haven't seen in any game. The devs did a great job with keeping the hud to bare bones. The main quests, side quests, interactions with npcs was done very well. Close to what Witcher 3 did, but they messed up a bit in this area. The mystic quests were by far the best, despite the rewards were sh*t. Lets be honest, you're never going to use the ugly ass armor they give you at the end of it. Side quests were good, alot of them had an interesting story, but the way the quest is played it is almost the same as the others. Go to this area, follow footprints, fight enemy, etc. The side quests stories were still very good and not all were like this. Just wished they added a little more diversity in them. Adding choices in the quests is a strong start like Witcher 3 did. Gameplay obviously isn't something we haven't seen in a Far cry game or an AC game. Liberate the area with optional objectives, rescue civilians from the bad guys, do the collectibles around the world for stuff, climb and swing; rinse and repeat. This is the biggest drawback since all the damn ac games and Far Crys do this. This makes the game boring if you've played other games like it before. The water mechanic was so good but you almost never use it. This is where I think they couldve helped diversify gameplay. The animations outside combat kinda suck a** not gonna lie. The only good one is sheathing and unsheathing katana. Too many examples of this, but a few are when you accept the rewards from peasants after saving them, when you put away your flute, when you dismount the same exact time as your companion does, sometimes random npcs will zip by you at like 60 mph. Some more examples, but this is extremely immersion breaking when you see it. Especially the currency, which are supplies. I had like 4k bags of supplies at one point. The amount rooms that would take up lol. Gold would have been fine even tho a war is going on. It still would make more sense. The game can be also a little buggy. Sometimes you will launched in the air when doing an attack in a weird angle/area, a fox wont show up at their den, the enemy AI will turn away from you randomly when approaching them, a lot of times when you jump you get stuck on a rock for a good 10+ seconds before readjusting. There are a few more as well. If this was once an awhile, It wouldn't be a problem. But you will notice it once you spend at least 20+ hours in the game. Next is part of the combat. Like I said before, it is very good. But the devs decided to add like 9 different throwables/usables for no apparent reason. There are sticky bombs, black firebombs, firecracker, wind chimes, explosive arrows, throwing knives, smoke bombs, and flaming sword, posion dart, and an additional bow. I do like the dual bows because each serve a purpose, but all the others? Goddamn. Did they really think we would use them all? . They should've kept the bows and all the Quickfire weapons. The sticky bomb is still unnecessary tho. The wind chine and firecracker literally do the same thing, a distraction. A whistle would be fine lol or a fkin unlimited rock. The shrines, collectibles, activities, etc are slightly excessive but still fun. They could've at least taken out a few of them like the stupid a** banners, vanity gear, crickets and one of the shrines. Its so obvious they are all fillers and Its annoying when games do this too excessively. The activities are fun however. The crafting could've been done better. Especially with the trapper gear. Its literally just all predator hides, increasing in required amount as you upgrade. This just felt lazy like with some of the animation. Leather, silk, linen, etc are already in the game lol. Im sure the trapper would know how to. Same with the black/white dyes. They all require flowers, despite the color. You could have only blue and yellow in the inventory, but you can still make that white dye. This may seem petty and insignificant, but they did everything else so well with the detail and immersion. Why give up in a few areas? Doesn't make sense. Alot of these can be fixed with an update since they arent anything too big. They just all add up, hard to avoid. Overall the game is hard to hate, def 8/10
just a good game with its pluses and minuses: + great design + decent combat system + normal storyline and good side quests - the open world is filled with a bunch of unnecessary collectibles, roadblocks, etc. - The game doesn't have the best optimization - The game just doesn't bring anything new to the gaming industry 7/10 no more and no less
Just Not seeing It! I dont understand what so fabulous about this game and what's everyone affactuation is for it. Its play, Its graphics, It all seems like its was made 5 years too late. Put it in a time machine and come out with it.... I'll say 2017 and you have game of the year potential. But now it's just seems like a game that cant compete with the likes of the open world greats (Spiderman, RD2, and even as far back as GOW). And it has nothing on AC: Odyssey.

Am i missing something with this game? Story is bland.. Graphics are OK not as good as say AC Odyssey or Tlou2.. The missions are boring and repetitive and the main character is so dull it makes me want to fall asleep.. Its a average game.. Not bad but not exactly good either..
The game is very beautiful. The gameplay is good although a little buggy. The dialogue and the story have some major issues. There are some very good plot points but the problem is how to get from point A to point B. There are several links missing creating huge plotholes due to lack of attention to details and lazy solutions. The main character's personality is bland and does not make you attached to his story. The only time you feel as a samurai is when dueling which is by far the best thing in this game. The transformation from an honorable samurai to a dishonorable warrior comes naturally to Jin and rather easy to someone who spent his entire life up until that moment as a samurai. It would have been smoother if he was thought by that thief or by a shinobi. The navigating wind system is a very good idea.

Solid game. Great world, combat that sits somewhere between sekiro and fallen order (fairly consistent but not as fluid and a little easier), characters are very well written, protagonist is a little flat, really repetitive side content composed of hundreds of collectibles and outposts, most of which are very similar. If you liked ubisoft style open worlds this is a buy, but if those games dont interest you this probably won't either.
This game starts off so promising, the combat seems really cool and fun, but the longer you play, the worse it becomes (Switch your stance to the corresponding enemy and mash triangle.). After about hour 5, you realize everything is wildly repetitive. Within those 5 hours, Igot all the abilities I wanted. No more progression and the same enemies over and over. the timing is off, so I would never understand why I get hit when I was blocking perfectly, which devolves the combat into rolling around like an idiot and mashing the triangle button to stun. Very easy, even on hard. The only parts you will die on is the 'duels' on hard since the timing is so messed up.
This game does a few things at a 10 1) combat is excellent 2) characters are really interesting 3) the world is beautiful. But it does a few things horribly wrong. 1) the open world style things to do get boring REALLY fast 2) some seriously bad game breaking bugs. Specifically with crawl spaces and investigating things during missions as well as some weird AI stuff Honestly it's hard to justify a higher rating because of how boring the open world atypical garbage is
Game was fine until you get knocked out by a wooden stick and they kill Taka. Contrived storylines in a 100+ hour game? That’s a load of **** and these writers should all be fired or relegated to writing for Family Guy as apparently they just love to rehash tired old cliches. I didn’t give any thought or care for particularly any character in the game as none are very memorable and all of them are one dimensional and show no growth outside of Jin. Don’t waste your time unless your a fan of something you’ve seen a million times done better in almost any medium. Even the Japanese aesthetic runs thin and gets boring and bland a third of the way through the game. 100+ hours of wasted time in the most tedious dull and underwhelming story I’ve ever experienced which is a shame because it started off so strong with epic battles, learning stealth and tons of techniques but it just grinds to a damn halt and I’m struggling to find a reason to care in the slightest for the well beings of anyone. I’m more sympathetic to the mongols at this point and want all of Tsushima to just be killed off. Here’s hoping that’s how the game ends with everyone dead because it certainly has bored me to death.
The most overrated PS4 game ever with its 9.3 User Score. While TLoU2 got negged to hell by those same users. Never thought I'd say that but thank god for real critics who gave Ghost a solid 83 and TLoU2 94 score.
Just completed this game today and what an adventute it was. Ghost of Tsushima made me all excited to pick up my PS4 controller again and be immersed in its open-world rather than just playing just because I dont have anything else to do. When I'm not playing, I'm thinking about it and cant wait to play it again. This will definitely go to my list of favorite games. Thank you Sucker Punch for this epic game!
Lindos paisajes y musica pero esperaba mucho mas que una rutina con tanto detalle mal cuidado, hasta mas de algun bug. Me siento desilusionado con este juego

Just an ok game. It's not like it's the super fancy game on PlayStation 4 Pro. The background of the game is kinda attractive to the Japanese culture out there. I believe that's the key selling point of it. But focusing on the game itself, I don't see too many differences from other similar type games. In general, the game is ok, but not that impressed. For those who gave easy 10 r either dumb or never played a good game like TLOU2 or God of War.

El mejor exclusivo de PS4 del año,Un broche de oro para este generación.Con una historia excelente personajes con los que te puedes encariñar y UNA DECISIÓN FINAL que te dejara reflexionando sobre el futuro de nuestro protagonista. mejor de lo que yo esperaba, no es una decepción como otros juegos que yo conozco. Sin lugar a dudas el mejor juego exclusivo de PS4 del año 2020


It's a good game but overall it can't be compared with the masterfully crafted Last of us Part 2 which was released a month before this. Apart from that this is like another repetitive Assassins Creed game. Good but nothing special.
the idea is not bad but in fact **** the only good plot and the rest is not so good for example the weapon does not feel weight, and I am killed by the progress scale of an experienced samurai trained to shoot with a bow
This game beautifully presents the Japanese culture while also focusing on Jin's Story. Even here in India it was very difficult to get a physical copy but it was worth the effort.
Совершенно не понимаю почему такой высокий рейтинг у этой игры. Графика на уровне PS3, анимация никакая, когда , к примеру, нужно поджечь орудие или что-то сделать включается просто чёрный экран, вы серьёзно?! Геймплей наитупейший, пародия из более удачных игр выполненная не в лучшем стиле.

Full disclosure, I’m not finished. But I couldn't wait to write a “partial review”. This is not only one of the best LOOKING games I’ve ever played, but also one of the most fun. The story is captivating. Even the most minor of side missions has meaning and weight. Every character, good or bad, is interesting. This is one of the few games I’d like to see turn into a movie or miniseries. It’s that good.

An absolutely amazing game, enjoyed every bit of it. Not a reviewer that writes an in-depth review of games. But on the personal note, Gameplay 9/10 Graphics 10/10 Storyline 9/10 Sucker Punch productions has done a tremendous job with this game just like they did with the Infamous series.
I got to say this game is absolutely beautiful whether riding through a sun bloomed field or along a forested trail. The historical setting of a culture and time i wish more games would come out about. Now the combat can become somewhat repetitive or somewhat easy in the later game play I still enjoyed it. The characters are interesting and the music when traveling the world or in combat is superb. A fine send off to the Playstation current gen I can't wait to see what Sony can do next.
What I remember most about Ghost of Tsushima are the little things that emmerse you in the game. From the first time I followed a golden bird to a suriviors camp, to the first time a fox led me to a shrine. From the first moment you start Ghost of Tsushima, there is a sort of energy that you just don't receive from other games down it's alley. There is a level of commitment and art that you don't see in as many games. You can follow the story alone and have plenty of hours invested in this game, but, if you're someone wanting a bit more of an experience there is a lot to offer. This, in my opinion, is a masterpiece of a video game. It will leave you happy at times, and (I promise) near to crying at another time. There are decisions to be made, the combat is spectacular, and it has a lot more shine than similar games. In my opinion, this has all of what I was missing from Assassins Creed Odyssey. Buy this game.

One of the best games of the year, no doubt. Several things stand out as special in the game - the combat mechanics, the beautiful vistas, the open world and stealth gameplay are all great highlights. This will inspire and change the way open world games are made in the future. Storyline is fairly standard though and the characters are mostly uni-dimensional.
Just WOW! It's the best game of played this year up to this point. The graphics, music, gameplay, and story are incredibly well done. Hats off to SUCKER PUNCH. IMHO this is GOTY. Now, SUCKER PUNCH please get started on the sequel... Please!
I will write this review in Spanish and English, since I am from Mexico. Let's start with why I bought ghost of tsushima. Since your ad I waited too long for 2 years. And I had a lot of Hype for the fact that it was Samurai, Stealth and beautiful landscapes. As I write this today, August 8th, the day the game ends, I can completely say that Ghost of tsushima is the best game I've ever played. But it's not a good game just because it has beautiful graphics. Let's start with the story. Story: From the first moment you start ghost of tsushima you get involved in the kinematics and you feel the courage of the Japanese to face the Mongolian invasion. The story is so well made and the writers and scriptwriters of the story deserve respect without any doubt. THIS GAME has the most exciting, epic and sad story of all the games I have ever played in my life. If you have any doubts about the story. The story is a 10/10 The gameplay is simple, with a complex battle system that involves you in katana fights. The Horse Saddle is simple and makes you enjoy riding all over the map. On the graphics are beautiful, the landscapes, trees, grass, weather honestly almost never make you want to take any quick trip and just want to ride. Honestly the game is a very incredible, entertaining game. The missions are not repetitive or at least I didn't feel that way. I sincerely hope to see Ghost of tsushima as game of the year Escribiré esta crítica en español y inglés, ya que soy de México. Empecemos con porque yo compre ghost of tsushima. Desde su anuncio lo espere demasiado durante 2 años. Y tuve muchísimo Hype por el hecho de que eran Samurias, Sigilo y unos paisajes hermosos. El día de hoy que escribo esto 8 de Agosto día que termine el juego puedo decir completamente que Ghost of tsushima es el mejor juego que alguna vez haya jugado. Pero no es un buen juego solo por tener gráficos bonitos. Empecemos con la historia. Historia: Desde el primer momento al iniciar ghost of tsushima te envuelves en la cinemática y sientes el coraje de los japonéses ante la invasión de los mongoles. La historia es tan bien hecha y los escritores y Guionistas de la historia merecen respeto sin duda alguna. ESTE JUEGO tiene la historia más emocionante, épica y triste de todos los juegos que he jugado en mi vida. Si tienen duda alguna sobre la historia. La historia es un 10/10 La jugabilidad es sencilla, con un complejo sistema de batalla que te envuelve en las peleas con katana, La montura a Caballo es sencilla y te hace disfrutar cabalgar por todo el mapa. Sobre los gráficos son hermosos, los paisajes, árboles, pasto, clima sinceramente casi nunca te dan ganas de tomar ningún viaje rápido y solo quieres cabalgar. Sinceramente el juego es un juego muy increíble, entretenido. Las misiones no son repetitivas o al menos yo no lo sentí así. Sinceramente espero ver a Ghost of tsushima como juego del año
Excellent game, I have not enjoy a game this much since God of war. I'm definitely Platinum this game . The story, character building n world building is too notch
This game is one of the most beautiful I have ever played. The combat is exciting and satisfying, when fighting bosses or large groups of enemies and winning never felt easy. The game is also really immersive with getting rid of a HUD and making the wind your way of navigating. The story is top notch with you actually caring about many of characters in the game. Your also interested in many of the side missions with main characters own story line. My few nitpicks are a couple of bugs and that Jin is a pretty ok hero.

Absolutely a kick-a$$ game! I was completely blindsided by the depth, challenging (at first) combat, and endless open world side quests. AND, the graphics are stunning! Overall, this is a wonderful game that I have thoroughly enjoyed! As of right now, this is my game of the year.
The game is absolutely gorgeous, and I've had alot of fun playing it. However the game's core fighting mechanic suffers from terrible lock on issues, where your character will often face the wrong direction whilst using charged stance 'triangle' attacks. This even happens during the boss battles where they are the only enemy on the screen! Couple this with objects obscuring the camera at every opportunity, from blades of grass, to tree stumps, walls, buildings... You name it, it will constantly try to annoy the *** out of you as it causes undeserved death's. When I started this game I was thinking 9/10 but by the end, it has ruined the experience for me. Lesser games would have been crusified for this issue alone.

This is a piece of art! The only issue I had was the inability to lock on target in the fights. However, this little hiccup becomes absolutely irrelevant when the player learns about probably the widest range of combat and skills! This game combines the best aspects like stealth from Thief, assassination from Assassins, Focus mode from Uncharted, detective work from Witcher, and brings in the new & epic Samurai fierceness like never before. Also, Jin Sakai as a character, is very inspiring with his chivalry & patriotism. Well done, Sucker Punch!

I'm a "casual gamer". I don't have a PS4 but upon release I knew I had to play this game - so I made arrangements to make it possible! The short version is that this game was a whole experience for me. It isn't groundbreaking, but what it does, it does so well! The gameplay, the story, the world, the combat, the pace, the acting, the soundtrack - the beauty! There is no grind, which often can be the case with these kinds of games, and every progress happens naturally and follows the story. Skills and gear and outfits are given to you through missions, improved as you go along - you'll find that you'll have gathered enough resources to upgrade and keep up - and it really allows the player to focus on the story, instead of stressing about money, resources and LEVEL! I opted for the English version, so I wasn't looking at the subtitles at the bottom of the screen, but could just look at the visuals as I was riding a long the road getting a briefing by my companion. The actors did a great job, really sucked me into the emotions of this already enthralling story. The characters are fleshed out and I don't remember ever being bored with them. I really like Jin as a character, and I preferred the more stoic and calm performance Daisuke delivers, over the slightly more aggressive Japanese performance by Kazuya (both great performances though). I'll be listing them all so I'll just conclude: I liked them all! The story is good and well-written. They stuck to the themes that have been the core of good storytelling since the dawn of... storytelling. Which was a very smart thing to do because it works, and will never not work. It's not "cliché", it's human. The combat in this game is the best combat in a game like this, I've ever experienced. You feel the hits and the blows and the clashing of swords. You aren't hacking and slashing away on enemies, instead your weapon actually does damage, and you most definitely take damage. The fight animations are superb and there were times where I felt like such a badass, just hitting the right buttons, in perfect choreography. Here I should mention the only critique I can think of right now: THE CAMERA! In fights, especially when there are more than one enemy, it goes completely off. Swings away from your enemies so you're looking behind Jin instead of seeing the enemies that are attacking you from the front. Or it ends up blocked, in bushes or walls. I died a considerable number of times because of it. It's a beautiful game. It's quite realistic but also very stylised. It's a perfect balance. The world isn't oversaturated - in a field of grass, that's all there is. In a bamboo forest, that's all there is. and it totally works that way! I have played many other games where they went for realism, but with all the different textures and object thrown on top of each other to achieve it, it can end up looking overwhelming. In other words, the visual style and design of GoT is EASY to read (aesthetics, you know). The artistic freedom they took with this game works too. It not only makes the visual experience so great, but it also helps the pace of the game a great deal - they really just allowed themselves to focus on what's important (the experience) and ignore the technical aspects of every single thing. Playing GoT I have been reminded that artistic freedom when employed in fiction set in real history definitely has it's strengths, and shouldn't be deemed to be of poor quality because something wasn't historically correct. I'm a history buff and I didn't care - I was a samurai in Japan. I didn't care about the four seasons happening all at once either. Had the game been bad I probably would though. My point is that these artistic freedoms expanded and improved the overall experience. There are so many things to point out, that others have done so well so I won't even try - but I have to mention the soundtrack. It is absolutely beautiful! And the way that it is used throughout the game is great. It isn't constantly playing in the background as you explore Tsushima, so you don't become "deaf" to it. That makes it extra powerful when you're watching this thrilling, or moving cutscene, and one of the epic tracks starts playing! The main story, with the cutscenes and the music, really made me feel like I was in this epic tale (or well, in a movie!). To sum it up, I wanted to write 3 lines to leave a score here, clearly I couldn't help myself - and I'm currently playing this game a second time, still enjoying it. The Sucker Punch team did an amazing job!

This game is a masterpiece. It's by far the most beautiful game of the generation, it runs well, apparently it's not very demanding on resources as the console runs quietly and doesn't sound like a harrier taking off, the loading screens are gone within seconds. Technicality aside, story is very interesting and surprising, characters are great, combat is absolutely amazing, everything seems so well balanced. I cannot recommend this game enough, this is a true demo of current gen capabilities and shows how open world game should look like. Absolutely amazing, 11/10 in all aspects
This is another amazing single player, story driven game from Playstation. I couldn’t put it down from startup. It scratches all the itches I look for in an open world game. Collectibles, character upgrades, side quests, and weapons upgrades. The game is visually gorgeous and the music and sound is top notch too. The story is compelling and had some moments where I was like “Hot damn!” Sucker Punch really put thought and effort into this game and it shows. I love it when I feel I get my $60 worth with a game. My only complaints would be that while the stories of the side quests are good you basically do the same thing which is “go here and fight this group of enemies. This game is definitely in my Top Ten games of this generation.
Excellent game, which I initially blew off as a Japan based clone of Assassin's Creed. It ended up being so much more. The feel of the game was quite different from Assassin's Creed. Great story, incredible graphics, and generally an awesome game all around. Sony and Sucker Punch do the Playstation console well with an open world exclusive that's right up there with Horizon Zero Dawn. My gold standards for open world RPG games are HZD, The Witcher 3 and most Assassin's Creed games. Ghost compares very well with such AAA titles. Posting my review took a long time. As a completionist who does every side mission and explore the whole map, this was a 50+ hour game for me. Highly recommended.
I usually don’t write reviews, since other users usually already wrote the same thing dozens of times, therefore making it a waste of time. I will do an exception today, since it was the user score over here that pushed me into buying this game. I heavily regret this decision. I won’t go to much into story, since it’s a matter of taste. I don’t like it, my girlfriend hates it. It’s flat, full of stereotypes and shallow up to the point of an infamous press f to pay respects moment (apparently it’s ok in this game). The premise is pretty much a rescue the princess theme, don’t expect too much. People claim this game has the best graphics. Again, aesthetics are up to taste. I think the general art direction is pretty, even though a bit empty at times. But that wouldn’t be much of a problem if the gameplay supported it. On a technological level this game doesn’t convince though. It starts with the lack of necessary HDR settings, which will lead to ridiculously oversaturated colors. Nice to demo your fancy HDR tv at home, but if you’re already past that phase, you’ll prefer something more authentic. The skinshading looks a bit dated, other than that the shading is ok, not bad, but definitely not best. The game completely falls apart in it’s animation quality though. Bugs aside, the facial animations are stiff, sometimes on the awkward side. Characters in the world don’t follow a day night cycle, which makes them feel more like placeholders in a bad mmorpg. This is also one of the main reasons why the game feels so dead compared to a Witcher 3 (a game from 2015). Also, animations lack polish, you will find characters just pretending to eat, tend wounds, .. you might know this problem from older mmorpgs on tight budgets. Cutscenes are very old school, teleporting you back to key locations whenever the script requires you somewhere else. Ok, so let’s get into the most interesting part: design. The game pretty much throws you right into all the upgrade options right from the very start, without much onboarding. 1/50 Mongolian Artefakts, 20 supplies, technique points, stances, charms, ... you learn about all of this stuff before you even remotely care about it. Fine, I don’t like handholding you might think. Unfortunately that’s pretty much the only part without it. I played on hard: every spot within a huge radius around you is automatically marked on the mini map for you, so that exploration is pretty much obsolete. Set the destination, and the wind will guide you there. Too lazy for that? Don’t worry, the game will conveniently place birds and other hints to guide you to those spots, in case you couldn't care less. Too lazy for that? Don’t worry, there is items that make your controller vibrate if you get closer to other items. The game literally pushes you into skipping all the world rushing from one spot to the next one. It’s a mindless experience. Got some materials? The game will tell you what to upgrade, when and where, just use fast travel, no thinking required. Missions are scripted with 0% deviation in mind. I invaded a village, killing everyone inside. 10 seconds later I triggered a mission right next to it, which spawned the whole village again, making them plop in right within the cutscene. Climbing segments are heavily linear and remind more of an adventure game, rather than an open world game. The game is very pretentious about concepts of Japanese culture like honor and hariaku, yet it’s ok to cut through one of the very few destructibles, the traditional shoji doors of another fellow japanese. There is many cases of such incoherency.. The combat system is ok, it tends to be fun until you run into all the problems with the AI, which randomly gets stuck idling, or runs out of its very small Aggro radius, or is incapable of climbing a waist high object. There is numerous ways to exploit it unfortunately, partially due to the unbalanced skill tree. Stealth segments are extremely forgiving, up to the point where you can just run through and stab everyone occasionally. It’s not a bad combat system, but it definitely needs much more work. The game let’s you switch weather at any time, but also takes this privilege for itself. You might end up riding on a beach in the sunset, with a mission checkpoint triggering fog within a milisecond, without any actual ingame time passing in between. It completely breaks immersion. Finally the game is riddled with bugs. NPCs looking in random directions, walking into fire, items disappearing, I’ve seen it all in this game. All in all it’s beyond my understanding, how this game is 12th place in the all time user ratings. Tastes are different, and this game might indeed tick all the boxes for some people. I mean, I love Japanese culture myself. But I fail to see how 15k people think that this is it, a 9.3 out of 10 on average, a masterpiece, despite all of these issues, despite offering not much novelty
Tôi đã có một hành trình tuyệt vời đầy cảm xúc. Ghost of Tsushima xứng đáng là một trong những tựa game hay nhất hệ máy PS4. Không cố gắng hoàn hảo về mọi mặt nhưng Sucker Punch hoàn toàn biết cách chạm đến trái tim người chơi, như một bản nhạc hay chỉ cần chạm đến cảm xúc chúng ta một giai điệu.
Extremely disappointed. Repetitive animation sequences, a predictable storyline, and a blank main character severely detract from this game. The vistas and landscape were beautiful, but the minuses severely detracted from the game for me. The creators tried to ape the feel of Kurosawa without understanding the spirit that made his movies great. Additionally the creators Wade into a battle of ahistorical Japanese nationalism without understanding the greater context. A shallow, albeit beautiful, game that does not possess the depth it thinks it does.
Ghost Of Tsushima es uno de esos juegos que me provocan opiniones y razonamientos encontrados. Por una parte destaca mucho en un gran apartado gráfico que acompaña a una detallada y estudiada ambientación. A su vez el combate que es en mi opinión uno de los grandes protagonistas del juego destaca por su fluidez, dinamismo y detalle que en la mayor parte de las ocasiones te hace realmente sentir que esta en una película clásica de sumarais. Pero a la par de estos grandes detalles que ayudan a disfrutar del juego. Ghost Of Tsushima peca en muchos aspectos de fijarse en mucho clichés de juegos de mundo abierto. Se nota mucho que una gran parte del contenido es un puro relleno convencional y sin sentido ninguno. Esto a su vez perjudica en gran parte al juego que en vez de asentarse y definir mas otros aspectos del juego que tenían mas sentido y mas intenciones. Intentan rellenar y alargar el juego para intentar auto justificarse como Triple A. La historia sin estar del todo mal en general tiene una linea argumental muy decadente que en la mayor parte de su trama se vuelve aburrida debido principalmente a que la mayor parte de la misiones a realizar son muy repetitivas. Los personajes que ambientan la historia son interesantes en ciertos momentos. Dan mas protagonismo a personajes mas lineales y menos interesantes que a otros personajes mas complejos y con un narrativa mas atractiva. Una de las ideas menos pulidas y con menos sentido del juego es la implementación del sigilo. Este en la mayor parte de las ocasiones peca de tosco, contando a su vez con unas mínimas y poco pulidas animaciones. Ademas la dificultad del juego esta poco trabajada dejando una mínima inteligencia artificial de los enemigos que aunque estés jugando en la máxima dificultad provoca momentos ridículos y poco desafiantes. Creo sinceramente que el resultado final de Ghost Of Tsushima no es la idea principal del juego. Por el exceso abusivo de añadir contenido el juego se ha visto perjudicado en muchos aspectos. Creo que tenían que haber pulido mas los pilares principales del juego y haber dejado de añadir contenido inútil. Pero pese a esto es un buen juego totalmente disfrutable. Pero como ya dice el dicho. El que mucho abarca poco aprieta. Mi nota real es de 7.5.

Kind of regret buying this game new, but the hyped up user reviews got the better of me. The game is by no means bad though neither is it the best thing ever, it's just average. I think Sekiro spoiled me honestly because my biggest gripe with this game is the combat. It's floaty, clunky, and just unresponsive at times. There's very little weight to attacks and it feels like I'm fighting enemies with a pool noodle. Meanwhile enemies are unleashing insane combos or touting gian insane weapons. Game could use more player variety cause the sword and combat feel pretty bad.
If this game proves something, it is why lock on is needed. In Ghost you don't fight Mongols, you fight the camera. The combat could be great with lock on, despite it's tend towards the slow and unresponsive, but the camera instantly takes the game from an 8 to a 4. There is literally zero enjoyment of the combat in this game, and 95% of it comes down to the idiotic decision to enforce a clucky, slow camera from the PS2 era while having lock on. The game looks great, but once you take away the combat, there is not enough of a game left. If you want to navigate a well beautiful Japanese landscape while role paying as a Samurai in easy mode, then this game will suit you. If you are looking for anything more, then look elsewhere.
Ok. A great anticipation followed by an equally great disappointment. Lets just be quick alright?) Goods: - Graphics Bads: - Gameplay You wont ever feel challenged during a fight or immersed during an exploration of this truly beautiful, but empty world. There is no loot. There is not a single goal that is worth any effort. Side quests are just laughable and totally the same. Go there - kill some mongols - done. Hoku - baths - bamboo stands and other activitites help only a little bit. Petting an occasional fox brought some joy but thats it. - Story I can hardly recall a game that has a poorer and more primitive story than GOT. Even games like bloodborne or DS, even though not telling a single piece of story to a player managed to create some sort of meaning inside a game. Not here sadly. I am not even comparing GOT to titles like AC, Uncharted etc. etc. - Music Too ambient to be able to create an atmosphere. Just listen to a Diablo 1, Witcher 3 or TES Oblivion OST and you ll know what im talking about. Music is essential for the atmosphere - in GOT music is just there. - Atmosphere Non existent here. You wont ever feel anything special, you ll never want to live in Tsushima or even visit it. - Camera...ohhh that camera....The words i want to use explaining camera in this game should not be used publicly. - Dialogues Whoever wrote those "long and meaningful" dialogues should be sacked immediately. Do people really converse in 2-4 words sentences? I know its kinda Japanese thing to put as much information into a shortest phrase, but God, it is so boring. Overall i had to force myself to finish the game, to explore every single landmark and objective in the game, hoping that something will stir inside of me. But no. It is as incredibly beautiful and perfect graphically as its boring.

Great game, some small rough edges that make play painful at times. The system to equip charms and gear is slow and piece by piece. You cannot save an "outfit" for a playstyle.
The game is very good, but not perfect. The world is gorgeous, the combat has depth, and the story is complex. The photo mode is so good, that I use it, instead of shrug it off like in most games. Where it stumbles for me is in the quality of life aspects. There's a few too many mongol patrols on the roads, to the point that I don't have fun exploring b/c there's yet another group of 4-8 enemies to kill. Another let down is in the basic side quests, where it becomes nothing but go to an area and kill the camp of mongols. It would benefit from being able to skip cut scenes, and clearing the map haze more easily. Again, it's very good, but some frustrations.

this is absolutely the great game. With its location, graphics, combat and every thing what makes every games enjoy in game. I was waited it for 1 year since ita announcement , and have to say that expectations is rock. I think this game will be GOTY .. 10/10
Absolute masterpiece! Music is dope! Gameplay is great! Story is simple but hard enough to take your attention from start of it till the end. Gimme more of that!


Best game on PS4. Don't believe what the critics are saying this game is a masterpiece in storytelling, gameplay and graphics. Be immersed in the world of samurai on the island of Tsushima. Truly unforgettable experince playing this game. PHENOMENAL



Worst stealth system ever build in video . There is stealth problems in all games I don’t know what the f**k happen with the companies . But this game stealth system make me throw it in the rubbish and never complete it
Игра ну прям совсем не понравилась, постоянно хотелось спать, в боевке слишком много пафоса, графика хорошая.
Incredible Masterpiece, Sucker Punch Delivered an Absolute Masterpiece of a game to finish of the PS4 Exclusives Generation and ended it with the Best Possible Exclusive and I’d love to see an Amazing Sequel like this one in the Future and for Sucker Punch to Deliver another Masterpiece. 9.5/10 Incredible Game
So far I am 20 +hours in to the game and it is absolutely amazing .. graphics wise the game is beautiful .. the game play you actually feel like a samurai .. compared to ac it's better .. the sword feels like you are slicing through dudes the enemies are not damage sponges . You are actually carrying a sword not a wooden stick where you are slapping the guy haha .. so far I been playing on hard they kill you in a few hits .. you gotta time your blocks and Perry attacks.. armor is customizable .. and skins and colors you find everything in game !! Not dlc which I think is amazing . The photo mode is beautiful.. I ran in to a lot of side quest And side quest are their own mini Stories!!! Not fetch quest !!!. I don't see anything locked behind a paywalls .. Honestly I think it is the best samurai game on the market and most authentic .. The game feels a bit similar to spiderman and batman arkham with Assassin's creed and for honor ,combat is probably the best I seen.. if you compare it to Seriko it's more fluid but based on reality .. you're not jumping 30 feet in the air etc .. The game got different features .. an authentic Kurosawa mode which gives it that old black and white samurai movie feeling even the audio changes.full Japanese voice over, One thing I thought there would be was a karma system .. which there is none .. like sucker punch did for the Infamous games.. and I can't kill good civilians .. which I guess is understandable , you are fighting to free Japan from a Mongolian invasion.. similar games always felt too button mashy .. ghost offers a change you barely see games that actually make a sword feel like a sword .. A good idea is batman and Spider-Man , with bits of Assassins creed.. ghost is amazing game right up there with final fantasy 7 remake It is a must have for old samurai movie buffs , and people that want a change in gameplay for once .. enemies differ from different fighting systems and subtypes of the same style . You’ll encounter two people with a shield but one may fight a bit different then the other .. different stances work on differ opponents .. timing and pacing your self is important .. Ghost of Tsushima offers an experience that is worth looking in to must buy .. truly this is an amazing game

Okay, I thought The Last of Us 2 had the best graphics on the PS4, Well I was totally wrong. Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing game that has such a great visual fidelity that I am baffled that a game can look this good on such an old console. The gameplay is enjoyable but I have some gripes, such as weird npc actions that is typical in this type of open world. Combat is fun enough but not my favorite. Some of the abilites that you can unlock feels like moves you should have unlocked from the start but overall gameplay keeps you engaged. The story is a bit traditional with average characters. Probably the weakest point at the moment, and from how much I played hasn't changed yet. The sound design is top notch. The sound of thunder and the wind blowing around you is very spot on. Voice actors are well acted in both Japanese and English. No real negatives in this category. Graphically, this game is quite amazing. There was only a few times where I looked at a scene in gaming and was excited, Final Fantasy Remake when you enter Sector 7 slums, Dark Souls 3 after you leave the catacombs, and then the majority of time in this game. Granted I did put The Last of Us 2 as the pinnacle of graphic on the ps4, but nothing about its graphics really screams at me to be in awe, as The Last of Us 2 is portrayed to be realistic, but if I wanted realistic I would just walk outside. Ghost of Tsushima is a game that blends realism with professional photography together. There is a reason why professional photography looks as good as it does, because they understand how to fix the lighting and color to be satisfying for the human eye. Ghost of Tsushima does that for basically the whole game. The graphics do have some faults however. Some animation such as weird lip syncs especially in Japanese and animation bugs pulls you out of it but the game pulls you back in with everything else once again. Overall this game is quite the achievement. If you love samurais and amazing graphics this is for you. The game is held back by average story and some some gameplay and graphic problems but As one of the last 1 party games on the ps4 I think this worth playing.
I just loved the game,i think if they added nightmare difficulty and fixed camera it will be real 10/10. For me it feels like wicher3+dark souls+best old parts of assassins creed.Really good mix with good story and great fighting system. I havent gone too far in main quest yet,and i must say side-quest are really good,not mention the legendary story quests. Keep it up SP,only question why Main Character can't cut off heads of enemies like mongols did with samurai in prologue? PS.I finished it now,and im truly glad to change 9 to 10 despite camera issue:)
أجمل لعبة لعبتها في حياتي، إستكشافه العالم دائما محمس بسبب الطرق المتنوعة و الذكية و جماله الخلاب، القتال له وزن يمكنك أن تشعر بالضربة يمكنك أن تشعر بنعومة الحركة كل شيء شيء في هذه اللعبة يمكنني إن إصفه بجميل قوي خلاب أحب أحب طريقة التنقل الذكية و شاشة التحميل السريعة و تنوع المهام الجانبية و الموسيقى الخلابة كل شيء في هذه اللعبة هو تحفة فنية صنعت بيد مجتهدة
This is the Assassin’s creed set in Japan you’ve been waiting for, but even better than Ubisoft could have possibly made it. The critic score is way lower than the game deserves too
Пока наиграно 15 часов. Единственное-бесит камера во время боя. А так игра пушка! UPD:уже 35 часов, становится только интереснее



Игра мне очень понравилась. прекрасный сеттинг средневековой японий, зрелищные бой и никакого sjw
Amazing the story is well said and emotional and the graphics are top notch and looks next gen. The minimal UI makes the games so much immersive. Solid 10/10
It has displayed the whole beauty of feudal japan with the astonishing landscapes. I'm in love with the fighting mechanics. This has to be one of my most loved games.


Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best open world games I've ever had the chance to play. The artstyle of this game is breathtakingly beautiful, and the combat has enough variety to keep you engaged without feeling repetitive. The game takes inspiration from many games such as Zelda BOTW, Witcher 3, Nioh 2, and Sekiro, and creates its own identity. The story is great and will you entertained, the characters are for the most part well written. The side quests are divided into 3 types, which include normal side quests, multi part character side quests, and finally mythic side quests, and all are enjoyable(especially mythic side quests). The AI can be dumb at times, and the game does have a few bugs and glitches, but none of which will hamper your gameplay. Overall, Ghost of Tsushima is a must buy for all PS4 owners, and will definitely bring more recognition to Sucker Punch Studios.
Absolutely brilliant with the only con being the camera which takes time to master. That is all I'll say as the list of cons are easily overshadowed and the pro's are all in that wording of absolutely brilliant. 60 hours in and i can't stop playing. Top tier stuff all around. I can't believe the journalists were wrong again after just screwing up TLOU2, which was a 6 in my book but i gave it a 7 because of technical quality. Never will I listen to these hacks again, this is not generic. Sound = 10. Graphics = 10. Story = 8. Gameplay = 10. Combat = 10. Performance = 10. 20+ hours in. Playing on Ps4 Pro at 1800p in HDR with a headset. The game is just absolutely, fantastically brilliant.
Estou impressionada com esse game,historia,tradição e foi inspirado em fatos reais,muito viciante jogar esse game apesar de algumas coisas que devem ser corrigidas depois.Tomara que a empresa conserte e continue fazendo games para encantar.
Ghost of Tsushima è un vero gioiello come gioco. Il tutto si potrebbero riassumere con il totale è più della somma delle parti, infatti seppur patisce qualche difetto tecnico come i bambu senza fisica e un cavallo sicuramente migliorabile riesce a tenere tutto insieme grazie a un gameplay da paura e un mondo di gioco poetico. È questa la direzione giusta, più giochi meno film, grazie.

Solid open world with good additions and ideas. Great combat. Best looking game this generation. Very technically competent with very short loading times.
This game is literally the best game i’ve ever played, the environment its awesome,it has the beatifulest open world in the videogame,and the soundtrack its by itself and award winning
Este jogo é um beijo na boca nos amantes dos bushido, cenários lindos , designer das armaduras lindas , skins das espada e armaduras ótimas , o modo fotografia e perfeito consegue captar bem e tem muitas boas opções , o audio do jogo do ambiente e algo muito bom e gostoso demais ficar explorando no jogo, conhecer os cenários , as trilhas sonoras do jogo é uma delicia , nao fica na mente como em outros jogos mais é precisa te passa a impressão de estar no cenário de batalha. Eu categorizo o jogo de duas formas na questão gráfica ele é incrível ,lindo no macro so que o jogo falha no micro e sem cuidado nas pequenas coisas o que entristece um pouco mais nao afeta de forma alguma a gameplay. E por falar em game play ele é completo demais o sistema de batalha é algo gostoso , parry, quebra de postura , troca de postura , resumidamente ele é uma união dos melhores sistemas de batalha samurai da geração atual. O steath e algo bom porem nao é novo a gente ja viu isso jogos dessa geração . O sistema guia é algo inteligente o vento como guia "é muito samurai" amigos joguem ghost of tsushima é uma obra prima do PlayStation não é perfeito tem seus bugs , suas quedas de frame porem nao é tão gritante nao atrapalha a gameplay
Sucker punch you really got my heart with this game with the beautiful world you created and the amazing combat, fun exploration,and great story. It really deserves game of the year and one of my favourite games this generation.
Estamos ante un juego excelente, este juego es mas assasins creed que cualquier ultima entrega de esta saga, sin duda es un juego que debes jugar si tienes una PS4, la ambientación es algo que tenia tiempo sin ver en un videojuego, los combates son grandiosos, debo decir que tenia tiempo sin divertirme tanto en un videojuego de mundo abierto, creo que desde RDR2 no me perdía tanto en un paisaje, esa sensación de libertad que te da el juego es única, agregar el viento como brújula es algo genial pues hace que la aventura sea mas inmersiva, las misiones no las sentí repepetitivas pues agregan historia a los personajes secundarios, la historia que si bien no es excelente cumple con lo que promete y te mantiene entretenido, siempre he dicho que si un juego cumple con divertir es un juego excelente y este vaya que lo cumple pues tiene eso y mas, por cierto el combate es genial, agregar las posturas lo hizo aun mejor, ame completamente Nioh y Nioh 2 pero tenia tiempo queriendo buscar algo de la cultura japonesa que fuera mas real(sin cosas místicas de por medio) y este me lo dio, y no quiero olvidar esa hermosa banda sonora que por dios me hizo sentir en la piel de Jin, Sucker Punch hizo algo que teníamos desde hace tiempo pidiendo, un juego completo, con excelente combate, hermoso, divertido y muy disfrutable, ademas sin microtransacciones y esas mamadas que EA y Ubisoft no se cansan de meter en sus juegos, aquí veo un contendiente al juego del año seguro, yo se lo doy sin duda, 10/10.

Man, I so so love this game! 5 hours in and I'm truly baffled by it... It has taken my breath away. I'm playing it on Japanese language and it really gives the whole game an extra dimension. Don't doubt, buy it!
A fantastic open world with real compelling missions that are very much associated with the history of the island of Tsushima, it’s citizens and their mongol foes. Beautiful world, very good dialogues and narrative, very good character and tool upgrade System a real 10/10. Well done Sucker Punch it’s awesome.


Great game. Adult and the best game in terms of atmosphere. Great combat, a close second to From Software's games The media sucks, the stupid fight between Sony and Microsoft is affecting the industry, you both suck. Enjoy the game.
A great game from Sucker Punch Production. Awesome graphics, combat mechanics, and story. So many collectibles. Yes I like this game Graphics 10/10 Open world 10/10 Combat 9/10 Story 8/10 Music 10/10
An absolute masterpiece on every level. This game is the last PS4 exclusive made by a Sony studio and it ended with a bang with this game. The graphics, music, sound design, picture mode etc. Is top notch and I hope there's a PS5 patch for this game to push it even further to greatness than it already is. A must buy
This game is incredibly refreshing. As the last major current-gen release, Ghost of Tsushima delivers in multiple ways. First off let's talk about the graphics. The overall setting of Japan has many bright, impressive colors, and Sucker Punch does a great job making the world come alive. The wind is an added bonus that just makes this title's graphics really stand out. The cutscenes are absolutely stunning, and despite the quantity of them, they actually help improve the games quality. The combat is actually quite impressive, and as you rack up more skill points and unlock new abilities, you really feel like a bad-ass samurai. Jin originally come off as a cut and paste character, but over time evolves into a really deep and intriguing protagonist. I am also a fan of the villains, because they have real motivations and aren't just bad guys for the sake of being bad guys. I don't want to spoil too much of the story in my review, but just know that it gets better and better as the game progresses. In the end, the world overall just feels alive, and there is so much to do that gameplay never gets old for me. I could go on about how much I enjoy this game, and I believe that this game is the perfect samurai style game, even better than Sekiro! What a way to wrap up the PS4!
This game truly brings badass action, fun and the samurai feeling, despite the graphics downgrade (games are about having fun). After the deception of TLOU2 this is a relief and will mark the generation.


Goty easily it’s not even close. Makes tlou2 look like trash because it is. Hilarious how they gave this game a 83. When tlou2 has a 94. Idk what game they played but this game in literally every single way except maybe graphics but that’s preference because this game is beautiful and the load times are like 2 seconds on the pro.
Игра просто шикарна боевка великолепна открытый мир аж завораживает сюжет шикарен великолепен побольше бы таких игр




Гневается дайме, Свернул самурай с пути, Под тенью сакуры. Или как лицезреть красоту Японии из однушки в Подмосковье.
Amazing story amazing gameplay I can’t stop using photo mode The work is so big you can go everywhere on the side mission is so good
Imagine playing an Akira Kurosawa Movie yourself. Brilliant in optics, gameplay, story, narrative and level design. 10/10 Must Buy for PS4 owners that like Adventure Games.

One of the most beautifully games i have ever played like i actually feel like i am in japan with those nice visual gameplay is smooth all the input button are responsive i dont wanna finish the game that how much i am enjoying ghost of tsushima
So I’ve literally been playing the game from when i got it with the digital release Thursday night. First thing I’m going to talk about are the bad.. there isn’t much but I do wish the camera would ghost anything in front of you because there would be plenty of times a tree or house got in the way resulting in my death.. the other thing is I wish the Japanese lip sync was better.. other then that you can’t really find to many things to complain about the game is great the standoff mode is awesome and the multiple sword stances are satisfying I’m about 50 hrs in currently and the world is amazing it is full of life and things to do...I can only hope Ubisoft takes a long had look on how to do a Japanese setting and style and apply it to their next assassins creed Ok I’m going back to playing just thought I would say some things about the game because it’s amazing.

Esse jogo é considerado por mim o melhor do ano. Excelente Trilha sonora e ambientação em que te leva bem a fundo nessa época sombria do Japão. O melhor jogo de samurai já feito. Comprei sem pena principalmente se você gostar de Zelda botw e Res dead.


Game of the year
Lots of fun activities to do in the open world and some of the best combat gameplay ever. Only problem is that the camera can get stuck some times during combat but other than that great game
Great game I hope it won the GOTY Award Nice , nice , nice , and nice game play on ps4
I’ve only played about 5 hrs into this game but it is absolutely wonderful and gorgeous. All the secrets and quests are fun. Playing with Japanese voice acting and English subtitles on hard. Best game I’ve played in a long time. GOTY I think.
Это замечательная игра! Пропитанная духом Японии, неимоверными красотами, погружающей атмосферой. Бои не идеальные, но на это можно закрыть глаза, все остальное берёт за душу. Обязательно японская озвучка.
The cinematic feeling this game gives the player is amazing, and has never been done in a game before, let alone a genuine samurai game before. I didn’t expect any less from sucker punch studios, their talents should not go unnoticed, everyone should play this game.
Haven't completed the game but it's been great so far, i would say it is a solid 9 for me since i found the story interesting but if you think it's not great then it would be an 8. Overall, the combat, the gameplay, the art design and the open world mechanics are great and they certainly carry the game along amazingly, I'm genuinely glad that this was a great experience unlike the disappointment that was tlou2 since it would be a shame the end the era of the ps4 behemoth with a let down.

Im too immersed in the game, cant stop playing it, the story is so interesting and sad, wont spoil anything but don’t trust blindly in all men/women.
Es una maravilla visual, la jugabilidad de combate es de las mejores que he visto nunca. No le doy el 10 porque la IA de los personajes cuando quieres ir en sigilo podría mejorar
Sucker Punch delivered and never disappoints, especially when it’s a brand new IP. Fantastic game with beautiful graphics. Good combat violent combat and also nice costumes.
Amazing game, super beautiful open world that you easily lose yourself In and forget about the real world. The game truly makes you feel like a real samurai. Highly recommend to play the game.

Really enjoyed this game. The Japanese voice actor is Zoro from One piece. That just made it for me. Also it doesn't have woke bull"****" in. Best game on PS4 this year so far
Good game strongly inspired in The Legend Of Zelda: Breath Of The Wild. Obviously every game that is inspired by the game of the generation (Zelda BOTW) will be amazing.
Эта игра очень близка к идеалу. В игре превосходная боевая система, но во время боя, когда тебя окружает 5 врагов разного вида очень сложно менять стойку, поскольку враги не глупые и нападают толпой, эту интересную механику можно было сделать немного иначе.
Muito bom o jogo tem alguns defeitos como vc não poder usar "lock" nos inimigos e a versão japonesa não tá em sincronia com o personagem... Fora isso gráficos foda gameplay muito boa e as histórias dos personagens tbm são interessantes... Diversas coisa pra se fazer no jogo vale o dinheiro investido na minha opinião
Best open world game I have ever played. This game will sell you on HDR. It is beautiful combat is fast and calculated. Every upgrade means something. Also can't forget photo mode definitely one of the best ever. 10/10 can't wait to reply it on PS5.
I love this game. I have been playing it since the day of release. I first want to say that I rarely finish games. I usually play a few hours of a game and put it down to never pick up again. But, I can honestly say that I will continue playing Ghost of Tsushima until I platinum the game and may continue for another playthrough. I don't want to give too much away but, I recommend this game. It has everything I could ask for in an action RPG. Beautiful world, amazing combat, customization, and gives a reason to explore that world and gives appropriate rewards for exploring and doing side quests.


Gameplay maravilhosa. Jogo lindo nos seus cenários e animações. Peca por possuir alguns bugs e a câmera ser perdida principalmente em lugares fechados. Apesar de tudo, é uma ótima experiência que fecha bem a geração do PlayStation 4 com relação a exclusivos.
i have never seen a game so beautiful. the combat is nice and we have not gotten a game like this in many years. the combat is so entertaining especially when you gather it all. -1 because i like choice-based games.
Best open world I've experienced this gen. It does have some filler but the quests are cohesive and extend the world rather then the simple fetch quests that go along with most other open world games. Ppl you save out in the world you will meet later on in certain areas and it feels like the world is actually alive and what you do actually matters .
***NO SPOILERS*** This game loooks mesmerizing, it is very fun and the combat is great. A must play for any PS4 owner. I hope to see part 2 in the future for PS5.
What not to love Swords and Samurai. Loving the game play and sword fights. I struggled a little bit with the control and fights, but once u get used to it, it is like a dancing sword fighting movie. Looking forward for more from this studio.

Игра просто пушка, По всем параметрам 10/100 Минус только в том, что нельзя плыть на лодке по морю)
Ghost of Tsushima is a riveting experience for the most part. It has some of the best and most beautiful environments to explore. And it offers one of the best and most fun combat systems to date, And the customisation and upgrade system is some of the best we've seen . However, what drags it down for me is repetition. The side quests just became like chores because there isn't any distinction about any of them like there was in games like Witcher 3 or Skyrim. Still, Ghost of Tsushima is a riveting experience, where you'll be sure to get lost in it's rich, nuanced world.
Phenomenal game, perfectly summing up passing generation. It delivers where The Last of Us 2 has failed - coherent story, characters you like and actually root for, addicting, deep game play and beautiful music. Graphics are little worse then those in Naughty Dog's stinker but you have to remember this is a full blown open world action RPG with plenty of side stories, missions and activities not walking/trash collecting simulator.
I really don't understand all the criticisms that are raised against this wonderful game. Digital ART at the highest levels.I am about 10 hours of play, but I can say that I was kidnapped by this wonderful, iconic Japan from the past. My advice is to play it on difficult level as the combat is much more satisfying the enemies are more aggressive and artificial intelligence is better! Graphic, combat and especially music are at Oscar levels.I stopped dozens of times taking photos of this wonderful game.I have to congratulate to sucker punch for making the latest gem for PlayStation 4.I dare not imagine the wonders that we will see on PlayStation 5 from this developer,it's one of those games that goes into your head and heart and you don't take it off! Graphic :9 Story :8,5 Combat : 9 Music : 10 I really hope to see masterpieces like these on PlayStation 5
Sucker Punch did a great work. They recreated original old Japan setting pretty cool. Simple graphic goes along with great visual style and design. Ordinary combat system that brilliant mix with wonderful fight animations. Good but simple plot with spirit of bushido about honor and revenge and also best exploring system. As fan of samurais and Japan setting I'm very impressed. Hard to believe that that game was created by non Japan studio! 9/10
Jogo simplesmente incrível! Mundo imersivo,combates bem feitos,Gráficos incríveis! Únicos defeitos:Texturas mal polidas,leve downgrade nas finalizações brutais. Mas como um todo,jogo e simplesmente incrível!!!!
Bom jogo, jogabilidade ótima cg muito bonitas,modo foto inovador e paisagens lindas porém algumas como a praia são muito feias,Árvore de habilidades bem extensiva e muitas armas e armaduras.Alguns bugs mas nenhum que atrapalhasse a jogatina e ótimas missões secundárias e uma narrativa até então morna.
So much to learn and control. The game itself is one of the most beautiful games I've ever played. The skill trees are close to perfect for the game. Def worth the play.


Short Verdict Its Not Perfect game But Its Is Solid Great Game of This Generation! This Game is A Love Letter to Akira Kurosawa a Legendary Japanese Director Movies World of Tsushima will make you lost in time, this game is so immersive, tge Graphics are Wonderful, the story is Great,, and the choose of your act can change the Ending, this is Samurai game that we really wanted,
Positif : - The beautiful landscape - Nice Dubber - traditional japan simulator -The Deepest side quest storytelling - Kurosawa mode - This is a game about japan without bringing japan pop culture Minus : - Unsync between japan dub and facial mouth



Can’t believe that this game has a lower critics rating than the last of us part two ladies and gents this is a proper masterpiece and a video game without any agenda push where you can immerse yourself to be a samurai.Graphics gameplay everything is great
Khan's character actually pretty attractive, I feel like I really enjoy the story, the spirit. The view is gorgeous, I can watch it all day. It's kind of similar to Assasin's creed, but I haven't got any bug yet.
One of the best PS4 exclusives and one of the best Sucker Punch games ever made. One of the most stunning open worlds ever created with fantastic gameplay and wonderful story. It is by far one of the best games of 2020 and hands down a GOTY contender.
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa
Everything I ever wanted from a samurai game, impeccable art direction, a traditional story, a gorgeous soundtrack, and a combat system that truly reflects the precision of kendo.


This game is a must play! One of the greatest qualities of the game is the environment and overall world sucker punch has crafted, every little leave sways in the wind as you're riding on you're horse throughout the beautiful open world. Every moment while in the game world you just have this urge to take a photo of your surroundings, which is great because the photo mode is so good. Another amazing aspect of the game is its's combat. It has the intuitiveness and satisfaction of Spiderman while not being too easy. Overall this game is definitely a must play and is the perfect cherry on top to the spectacular PS4 generation.

Seems like Playstation devs keep put doing each other. Absolutely amazing game. Haven't had this much fun in a open world game since skyrim or GTAV. No MTX or DLC, it was finished day one. A must play if you love video games.



Игра шикарная, это шедевр на уровне Ведьмака. Идеальное завершение линейки эксклюзивов текущего поколения PS. Побочные квесты так же хорошо проработаны как основная история. Много интересных стелс-механик, лучше чем у любой игры такого жанра. Стрельба из лука 10 из 10. Боевая система с катаной тоже 10/10. Паркур, лазание по стенам 10/10. Даже езда на лошади 10/10. Вообще не к чему придраться.

Its a masterpiece of a game! Absolutely fun combat, a good story and one of the most beautiful worlds I’ve seen in a video game, the art style and atmosphere from wind blowing on grassy fields to leaves falling from trees is why my hard drive is full of screenshots from this game!
Wow! A game that hits all the right boxes with a few minor flaws but even those cannot dampen the overall experience of the game. This game is addictive and you will find it hard to put down your controller. So don't be like me, take regular breaks to rest your eyes, brain, and hands or else you'll easily end up playing the whole day sleep be damned! GRAPHICS: The game has stunning visuals. I thought it would be hard to beat TLOU2 in the visual department, but here we are only weeks later. The environment, the grass, trees, water, all polished to please your eyes and enhance your experience traversing the island. SOUND: If you've played or watched samurai movies and games based on Japanese history, then Ghost of Tsushima knocks it out of the park. The wind sound as it blows through the environment, makes you feel like you are actually there. If there was a VR option for this game, that would've been awesome. The sword and bow sounds in combat, blood spurts, and other environment elements are common to what you hear in past great historical Japanese samurai themed games and movies. GAMEPLAY: This is where Tsushima hits a home run for the most part. You feel connected to the character. You grow and customize him as you progress through the story and complete missions (tales) as you explore the island. Learn new abilities, and stances to help in combat to make you the most badass samurai you can imagine in a movie or anime. Upgrade armor, equipment, and tools to get the job done of slashing, and piercing those evil Mongol hordes. A combination of elements from the old Tenchu games, Uncharted's style of climbing up and getting around the map, and the open world feel of games like GTA. All comes together quite nicely. STORYLINE: Coming off the huge disappointment of TLOU2's storyline, this game does the revenge theme correctly but with a very Japanese samurai like process. Defend your clans honor, avenge fallen comrades, choose whether to fight the honorable samurai way head on and face to face with enemies or sneak around like a ninja and assassinate your foes silently. Your character starts off kind of naive, but as the story progresses you see him mature and harden to the harsh reality of fighting a war of swords and bows against the most dishonorable fighters of the time, the Mongols. You are given a clear goal to achieve, and you are satisfied in the end to achieve it. Something that TLOU2's writers could've learned from. CONS OF THE GAME: My biggest complaint for the game is the lip syncing when using the Japanese dub. The lips do not match what is spoken. It could be that they synced it to the English dub but not the Japanese dub. It gets annoying if you focus on the face during cutscenes, but those who read the subtitles will probably not notice it as much. People who can understand Nihongo and play without subtitles will notice. There are also some AI glitches like enemies occasionally get stuck in pieces of the environment, but this is rare and hardly noticeable. SUMMARY: Ghost of Tsushima is the perfect palate cleanser to get the awful aftertaste of disappointment from playing TLOU2 which was released previous to this game. It has all the elements of TLOU but without the flawed storyline. This game's gameplay and visuals will keep you hooked playing for hours. Replay value is there for those who want to explore every inch of the island and get every item to be found. Those who saved their money and skipped TLOU2 and got this game spent their money wisely. This game is worth the money and time to play. This is the best game of 2020 so far. Looking forward to Cyberpunk 2077 to see how that does. Ghost of Tsushima has set the bar high for what a great game should be in this year.


Combat is amazing. world and exploration is amazing. Traversal is amazing. Graphics and art direction is amazing. Story is amazing. Side quests are amazing. Progression and customisation is amazing. so much content. Loads of hours of playtime. One of the best games of the generation. A must buy, must play.

After the MAJOR disappointment of TLOU 2, I am BEYOND grateful that this game is living up to the hype. This game is so beautiful and I can't think of a better looking game from this entire generation. I am loving EVERYTHING about this game right now. Thank you, Sucker Punch, for such an incredible game!!
Ghost of Tsushima deserves all the praise it’s getting and then some. It’s one of the best open world games ever made and there are so many reasons why. The combat is amazing, much better than most open world third person games, the world and exploration is fantastic, side quests are memorable and not just fetch quests and consist of a storyline and cutscenes. They’re almost as good as witcher 3. Even the side activities which are usually annoying in these kind of games are fun to do like cutting bamboo to make Jin stronger, or taking a hot bath and reflecting on what Jin has gone through so far in this game. They’ve put so much heart and soul into the game. GOTY 2020, without a doubt.
This is the most beautiful game I've ever played, and it's not even close. I have never played a game that I got so lost in, just exploring the open and taking in this incredibly immersive world. The music is inspiring. The characters and storytelling are fantastic. The combat gameplay is visceral and thrilling. Sucker Punch hit an absolute home run with this one.
I am so happy with this game which is a must-play undisputed masterpiece of its own, that I played from launch day and haven't take a rest since then. You have to experience it. This game is not only for "play", is to live it. This game stands alone. It is not an Assassin's Creed "copy" whatsoever. I have played 12 AC in my life, both Altaïr-Ezio era (counter easy game), Edward-Shay-Arno-Jacob-Evie (enemies queueing to attack you once you are ready with a long killing animation after pres X), and the RPG era (Origens, Oddysey and the need for leveling up) and Ubisoft would dream of doing something so well crafted on regards this combat system. It's so random, so unexpected and changing, you have brutes, ferocious dogs, heavy shield armored enemies, double blades, katanas, spears, archers, and all in a mix of everything can happen. You will be killed in seconds if you are not in focus. Standoffs are uniques. You have 4 ways of clashing swords and you have shinobi abilities. This game also cannot be compared to Sekiro. I have played Sekiro (platinumed, it's in my top 5 of beloved games, 7 NG+), so I acknowledge that Sekiro is yet harder, but Ghost of Tsushima has its own way of satisfaction. Boss fights are epic, fast, agile, strong, and intimidating but in a human way. You won't fight a big dragon here, nor a big monkey either, yet you will be stressed with the boss fight pace as in Sekiro, but If you die, you won't lose your progress points as in DS/Sekiro, and you can play GoT in story-easy mode. I'm playing blind (haven't seen a video at all, and in hard mode). It drags you down to his immersive word with no effort, but again the combat system!, I'm amazed! For normal enemies, you have to play safely as you cannot engage with 3 guys at the same time (however you can do standoff and there is an update that will allow you to make an amazing streak with it, but this is your choice, not the games one). On the verge of having your blood pressure about to explode and your adrenaline at its peak, yet you reflect and have time to chase birds and foxes, pray and pay honors, write poetry and take hot tube bats. It is so well scripted, the missions are insane, so unique stand-alone scripted with historical accuracy. It's the perfect fantasy. A strong community is now being born, people wanting to play honorably (hahaha), others wanted the easy stealth approach. I'm playing a mix of if with my eyes closed. The game forces you to play stealthy some missions, others as an honorable Samurai. This is the best way from Sony to say goodbye to the PS4. I don't know what else to tell you, people. I'm just lost in this playthrough.
Awesome game. Combat feels brilliant when you get it right, and punishing when you dont. There are some minor immersion gripes but they dont spoil the game enough to warrant any less than a 9
It's a great game but it still has it bugs like any other games at launch overall the game is good the story isn't that much not like red dead redemption 2 or anything else it's the studios first triple a title they did a very good job. (Must play) I'll comeback to rate it 9 when the bugs are fixed edit: i came back and the game is aa masterpiece it deserves to be game of the year at least
The pure look, the beauty and detail of this game! Coupled with pacing, joy of exploration. It's an amazing treat. Sucker Punch perform wizard levels of magic with the load times too, superb.
Great game well worthy of a 8-9 out of 10 . Graphics seem a little off in places but still amazing.. Music amazing.. Some of the mechanics here are pure genius wind showing you directions and some of the kills can be insanely fun jump from horse straight into battle.. Gameplay can get a little tedious after 30 40 hours but still ALOT of fun.. Found myself leaving the horse behind most of the time and just running everywhere as not to miss locations and the beautifully created world .. My advice leave your horse alone as much as you can and just run every where fast travel is great but just exploring the world makes the game longer BUT so much more fulfilling.. Story/story’s are great and meaningful All and all a amazing game hope to see more from sucker punch like this Truely worth a high rating not like some other PlayStation exclusives “ cough cough” Definitely check this game out I think assassins creed just got shat on...
if their is no cyberpunk GOTY I hope Gotsushima got it because it deserve i want too thank sucker punch for the great work they have put their souls and love for this beautiful masterpiece game gameplay , story , graphics and most important thing is the environment seriously guys big respect for u guys and keep making those kind of games thank you again
The combat is very fun and has depth and difficulty to it. The artstyle is spot on and provides you with a rare example of an immersive open world like so many other games promise but fail to deliver. It has its faults, some mechanics are derrivative and take the backseat, stealth should not be in the game it takes away from the fun, and the story isnt anything to write home about, but this is a game not a movie. This game needs a better sequel, without stealth, a harder mode and better missions.
Visually stunning, brilliantly executed combat, engaging storyline and lots of side activities that are actually interesting and fun unlike most games. Perfect game
This game is definitely prettiest game i've played and it did something quite different in the gaming industry which is the way they captured the culture of the Samarui it's very immersive and captivating, The exploration so far is quite fun and the game has the most impressive skill tree i've seen , A lot of people judges the game badly because of their high expectations , The game is at least a 90-93 but to me it's a 10 The game does what Horizon zero dawn does a lot better if you liked HZD You're gonna love GOT , The gameplay is really fun and it has a lot of skills,stances,throwables ,special moves, and a lot of upgrades that keep the gameplay fresh and not repetitive i haven't finished the game yet and i am not making my expectations high but the story is quite decent and very interesting to the moment , the game has some problems that people tend to exaggerate about like the "camera" or the "AI" they're comparing the game to games like Tlou2 , The AI is not bad at all and it has some amazing details such as : When enemies find a dead body stabbed in the back their walk will change and if they were 4 enemies they will split up in 2 groups walking side by side it was presented in a way tgat may show the AI like it was bad but it ain't , The camera in combat could also be quickly fixed by the player side.
The most beautiful open world game ive ever played. Now i want to see Japan in real life. Gameplay reminds me The Witcher 3 with quest and point of interest system, and Assassins Creed with gameplay and combat style, but much better. Another masterpiece. Well done!

支線豐富有趣，故事淺易 懂，打擊感十足，戰鬥建議選困難，有不輸隻狼的滿足感，遊戲內容飽滿，讓人玩了不知道停手，game of the year 實至名歸
El juego es simplemente magnífico, la historia te envuelve, y es muy fiel. Amé y amo al juego. Su arte es lo más bello que he visto en un video juego, y está diseñado para tirar fotos cada 4 segundos. Es simplemente maravilloso. Realmente lo recomiendo mucho. Su combate y mecánicas unidas son brutales es simplemente maravilloso. Para mi sin duda juego del año.
Nunca joguei um jogo de samurai tão incrível! Não me lembro da última vez que me diverti tanto jogando um game, se não fosse pelos bugs na câmera valeria um 10
Ghost of Tsushima It's a Beautiful Game, With Good Mechanics and A Nice story The Side quests of the game are just as good as the main quests every dialogue have a History Behind it, The Game Have Some Little Bugs but non of then Will make your Gameplay Less Funny or Less Immersive, It's A Game That you should definitely try.(Sorry For My English I'm Still Learning)
Amazing game, fantastic gameplay. The prettiest game I have ever seen. The world truly feels alive and the mix between realism and japanese folklore is truly a breath of fresh hair. The soundtrack is memorable and at times very emotional. Few minor problems with lip synch but thats honestly a non issue for me.
Enthralling environments and Japanese culture that keeps the attention while engaging in enjoyable gameplay. If you are looking for something that relates to this samurai aesthetic then this is the game of the year for sure in this genre. This is definitely one get for your collection for sure. I hope there is a trilogy in the future of this fantastic game. 9/10 from me. Damn good.
*chef's kiss* this game manages to be fresh and familiar at the same time -- making players feel right at home in it's stunning world but also tense with the dangers that lurk. The interchange between serenity and carnage is a masterpiece of pacing so organically achieved by small but far-reaching mechanics such as the lack of waypoints and minimal HUD-- forcing us to slow down and smell the flowers. And what fragrant flowers they are! The Combat only gets better as we go along and the story of Jin Sakai is an affecting one, a revenge plot we can all get on board with.

Amazing game with great graphics and story telling. The open world is beautiful and interesting to explore, which makes up for the terrible Last of Us 2 crapfest. Get this game.
A beautiful world to explore, good combat mechanics, interesting story and a rythm that never bores you. Without being a perfect game, the love with witch is made is palpable in every pixel.

This game feels alive in every sense of the word, The map has 120 unique locations 40 in each section of the map, you will never have the sensation of been in the same place twice, the combat is unique everytime you kill a mongole you have this epic stance to show how badass you are, very samurai style. You will have many techniques to unlock that will make you feel powerful. The A.I is really aggressive specially if you play in hard like i am playing, they will attack you at the same time of you are too close to them, and trust me you will die multiple times, i noticed as i progress in the game that enemys are stronger and difficult to kill. The customization is key in this game you have so much yo customize your character with so many epic armors and hats and also masks to make your enemies fear your ghost. I recommend you to play all the mission and get lost in this beautiful map ypu will have tons of hours more than 50, and belive me you wont get bored of this game. Tby no doubt this game is one of the best games i have ever play, buy the game and experience a beautiful world
This is the ULTIMATE Samurai Experience. There are some little bug here and there but nothing game breaking that kept me from playing the game. The story is really captivating and learning all about the samurais is just the cherry on top. The combat is top tier and needs some time to learn but once mastered you seem unstoppable. Even assassin’s creed wouldn’t be able to make a better japanese/samurai game if they tried. Another amazing PS exlusive in the portfolio well done Sucker Punch! Now i’m gonna go buy a katana..
ЭТА ИГРА ПЫТАЛАСЬ СДЕЛАТЬ МЕНЯ САМУРАЕМ, НО Я НЕ ПРОГНУЛСЯ! 8,5 лисьих нор из 10! Цусима - потрясающий остров, где большая заслуга шикарной системы частиц, анимации боя очень красивые (словно Гордон Рамзи разделывает лосося), 3D звук качественный, в сюжете весьма хорошее направление. Если студия дальше будет развивать эту серию, то на PlayStation будет тот самый Assassin's Creed, который некогда всем полюбился, а Ubisoft со своим недоRPG останется у обочины. Вот и закончилось поколение PlayStation 4.
Amazing game both graphically and story! So many times I just stopped and looked at the beauty of the game. Give these developers your money ! We need more developers like these! Thank you for a great ride guys !!! Keep it up!
So immersive and beautiful. I love how easily I get distracted by side quests everytime I tried to advance the story. Its gonna take me a good month to finish the game and that's just fine by me.
The ambience in this game is unmatched. The combat is good enough, story had me intrigued throughout the game. The main character side missions and mythic tales were refreshing side stories. Stealth is way too easy, but thankfully the combat is good so mostly I was going for combat. Exploration is incentivised by the gorgeous world and progression. Overall the flaws are vastly overweighed by the positives. A game worth full price.
Honestly ngl I haven't played too many of the PlayStation Exclusives, but wow am I not disappointed one bit by this game. I literally can't get my hands off it since I started. The combat, adventure, graphics, and story all seem fantastic thus far. Worth every penny. Definitely makes me wanna buy more of the exclusives PlayStation offers.
This game is amazing and magnificent this is the goty. Im telling you everything from the story to the gameplay is absolutely fantastic nothing less than that this is what sony should put there money on and not that thing i shall not mention.
A perfect game if you overlook an ageing AI system. Here is 3 things it does new as reviewers say it doesnt do anything new. 1 first ever standoff system in a open world, we have been calling for this since skyrim, its amazing. 2 First ever natural hud and organic quest system, second thing thats here to stay in open worlds, 3 Its the First open world set in japan where you can play a hybrid samurai ninja or archer class and fully swap between whenever you want. Its a entirely skill based system, nothings super over leveled, you win by mastering parry and stances. Graphically its the best game, ever. Nothing will touch this for a long time, The gameplay switch between either, fighting as a samurai/ninja for 15mins the the next 15 mins is the most chill relaxing experience traveling a stunning world, petting foxs and climbing moutains for rewards. The Quest reward you with rare gear or upgrade parts so they never feel like a waste. This is pure game, and its clear game of the year.

Um dos melhores exclusivos do PlayStation e dessa geração. Excelente game feito pela SP! Mundo aberto vivo, lindo, dinâmico e cheio de vida! A jornada do herói de Jin é incrível, totalmente convidativa a explorar esse belíssimo universo retratando o Japão, sendo fiel a cultura japonesa em todos os aspectos. Ghost Of Tsushima é uma carta de amor Japão!


The loading speeds are very fast, the story so far has been great. The graphics on a 4k TV and the PS4 PRO will make you feel that you are living in feudal Japan. The colors and the views are breath taking.

This game is simply fun to play.....its a crazy mix of arkham batman, assassins creed, a touch of sekiro, with some wither 3 elements... i could not stop playing this game, wifey even sat down to watch me play because the game sooooo beautiful, now the first couple of hours there is a learning curve however I suggest players explore and go off the path so you can really embrace the game and all the mechanics..go out and get this game you will be glad you did
This is one of the best games I’ve played in the last 5 years and this generation of games. The open world is so captivating even though sometimes repetitive, it does not bother me at all. The combat is fluid and feels great. Also the environments are some of the most beautiful I’ve ever seen. Amazing game.

Imagine if Assassin Creed, Sekiro,horizon zero dawn made a baby! One of the most fun games I played in awhile. The world is beautiful! Definitely wasn't expecting to like it as much as I did! Every ps4 gamer that likes sonys single player exclusives or samurai films must play this game

Coming from the The Witcher 3, Assassins Creed open worlds, O can say that this game is an absolute masterpiece in the open world saga it’s exploration mode, quest lining structure and the way the story is developed with the inside into each character of the island is Amazing. For me is a 10 only complain is the cámara which sometimes is complete diarrhea in combat.
Definitely the best samurai game ever made. It’s a lot like assassins creed though but better. Graphically it could be better compared to something like the last of us 2 which just came out it’s not mind blowing.
It is a amazing experience, good gameplay and beautiful environment, after long time I spending most time for exploration, every ps4 gamers should play this game, sucker punch done a good job
Ghost of Tsushima es mimo y belleza a cada frame que pasa. Para mí, el mejor juego de la generación tras haber pasado por TLOU, GOW, HZD, Days Gone, RDR, Zelda BOTW.. Sinceramente, la obra de Sucker Punch me ha conquistado por completo. No es ni mejor ni peor, tan solo es una aventura que vale la pena jugar para disfrutar de todo el contenido de calidad que te ofrece. No quiero entrar en Spoilers con la trama pero desde el inicio, si te gusta el cine Samurai, lo vas a disfrutar como un niño pequeño... El contenido secundario me parece soberbio, excelente. Narrativa profunda en relatos cortos y medianos con variedad entre si. Claro que muchas veces el objetivo será el mismo: matar mongoles. No tendría que parecerte raro puesto que.. está la isla a medio conquistar. En general muy contento con este apartado. Gráficamente tengo poco que decir porque ya se ha visto todo. No hace falta que todas las texturas sean ultra nítidas para lucir unos entornos tan cuidados y tan bien inspirados en los entornos orientales. Para mi es un espectáculo visual constante. Las mecánicas de juego son básicas pero funcionan a la perfección y si bien es cierto que en combate la cámara puede tender a fallar enseguida cojes el punto a retroceder y buscar un buen ángulo. Quitando eso, el combate me encanta y es adictivo entrar como un Samurai hambriento de sangre mongola!! La mecánica del viento es super intuitiva y menos engorrosa que gps o flechas menos orgánicas. Además lo bonito que queda entre los campos de flores.. Jugando en difícil la IA se resiste bastante mas, aunque en sigilo sigue siendo un poco torpe. Sin duda recomiendo jugar en dificil si tienes un minimo de habilidas con los videojuegos, a medida que vayas mejorando te divertirás mas. En definitiva, el juego está lleno de historias, gente, lugares, enemigos y paisajes enormes y preciosos. Si disfrutas jugando e invirtiendo tiempo en juegos largos... Sumérgete en Tsushima porque vale muchísimo la pena!

Great game, There are many things I’d have were better but there’s other than compense. I didn’t like: - Textures - the gestures - Cinematics every time you talk to a NPC - there’s no aim lock to the opponent - the stealth feels not so worked, it is very easy since the enemies do not detect you quickly. - AI (they don’t detect you at least you are in front of but once they do, starts the challenge, they are strong and more skillful more if they are in groups) - Problems with objects, animals(your horse) and walls, Jin goes through them in moments. I liked: - Story - landscapes, particles on screen, visuals in general. - The game rewards every effort or minute you spend in the game, not just experience but also objects, items, clothing, you don’t get tired of it. - the enemies are a challenge, more if they are in group, you better be precise. -Fotomode I’ve been spending hours and hours with the photo mode. -you never feel alone in the map even if It isn’t full of enemies and animals, only nature and each biome on the map makes you forget that. - boss fights - the music is one of the best things I’ve ever experienced in gaming, just gave me goosebumps. - every item and armor has its own use, resistance, same with the Katana, bow... - you don’t need a map, just follow the wind, that’s innovative, you won’t see nothing taking you to go somewhere. -the message the game gives you, about discipline, honor, value, respect for the opponent are thing we can try in real life, I practice taekwondo and I appreciate that, is something the world should put in practice. That’s my honest review. Enjoy this great game!

The best game and if this game comes in ps5 I will buy it again I loved the game

Que puedo decir? Es un juego increíble, pocos mundo abierto se ven tan vivos y bellos. Empezaremos con la historia y yo la vdd es q es una historia bien contada pero generica, personalmente lo único q me
Gameplay, graphics, epic storytelling, next level HDR. This game has it all. I bought the collectors edition. It blew me away. I wasn't expecting this.
If you're a fan of classic samurai films, and hell a fan of GREAT gameplay, then this here game is for you. It's slight graphical shortcomings are toppled by an incredible and unique aesthetic. At the risk of IGN'ing hard here, it's true in this case. This games makes you FEEL like a samurai.
Es una maravilla de juego, desde hace tiempo habiamos deseado un mundo abierto así Japon Feudal, es increible, el combate es super satisfactorio, graficamente es genial el tope de ps4, la historia es profunda, 10/10

graphically stunning. an open world with breathtaking landscapes and sunsets. I was more than once enchanted to see the scenarios for several minutes. Technically made with perfection and attention to detail. the combat system is realized in an excellent and fluid way. The story reaches at least in 5/6 situations an incredible epicity, hardly seen in other titles recently released including tlou2 which from the point of view of characters and history are insignificant and tiny compared to what ghost of tsushima shows on the screen and in the heart of whom plays it. Believe me if I say that Ghost of tsushima is for now the real goty 2020. Also this time we will demonstrate with the votes and user reviews that journalists / reviewers of videogames sites are a joke, and they are not credible. Don't believe journalists / reviewers, ghost of tsushima has a system combact perfectly realized, and the secondary missions aren't absolutely repetitive. the highest rates are reserved by journalists only for certain games that follow an agenda.
Finally a awesome Samurai game we all deserved. Thank you Sucker punch. The land of Tsushima is breathtaking and its really hard to not pause the game and keep taking screenshot . The photo mode is awesome too. Even if this game didn't have a story i would have still bought it to just to roam in the world of Tsushima. Definitely game of the year contender and easily in the top 3 for me. Gameplay: The sword play is amazing and unique stances for taking on different enemies. The parry feels rewarding too and god the amazing Stand-off feels satisfying. Please go ahead and get this game. Worth every damn penny.
Excelente sistema de combate. Peso do personagem e equipamentos eleva a experiência a um nível inigualável. Gráficos ecepicionais. GOTY Of Tsushima.
Sebuah mahakarya yang disajikan dengan sangat brilian,sucker punch sukses meramu landscape jepang yang mengagumkan dibalut visual yang memanjakan mata,di awal game ga kerasa menghabiskan berjam jam hanya untuk menikmati pemandangan pulau Tsushima,well sangat layak menyandang GOTY,semoga !


Gamer is definitely a 9, so far the game is everything I wanted, not perfect but better then a lot of games this year, sure their are bugs and glitches, but i'm sure it will get a fix soon, game has been out only 2 days or so now. So far the games has not disappointed.




Embora tenha algum errinho ou outro, não danificou minha experiência, uma imersão incrível no mundo japonês misturando o mítico com a liberdade, sistemas de indicação incríveis, mas de longe o que mais chama atenção nesse jogo é a jogabilidade, é incrível o sistema de combate e a imersão das defesas e esquivas, fazendo lembrar ate mesmo um the Witcher ou um sekiro, adorei a experiência, e não YouTubers e paladinos que bancam os programadores de jogos , não é só por causa de algumas texturas ruins que vai danificar sua experiência :P.





Personally, this was the best graphical game in PS4 history. Also the load times were very fast and stress free. There are some negatives in terms of combat, but I think the battles could be exhilarating if you release your kata and skills. The only issue I'd like to see is a patch to make the camera sensitivity quicker. I feel got a lot of love and respect for Japan from this game. Thank you! Sucker Punch! From Japan, with love

รีวิวภาษาไทยบ้าง ตัวเกมดีในทุกๆด้าน ทั้งภาพ เสียง ระบบ เนื้อเรื่อง แต่ถามว่าเกมนี้ต่างจากเกมโอเพ่นเวิลด์เกมอื่นไหม คำตอบคือไม่ เกมนี้เป็นเกมสูตรสพเร็จของเกมโอเพ่นเวิลด์เลย แต่มีเอกลักษณ์เป็นของตัวเอง
Definitely worth buying, such a beautiful crafted story, and stunning graphics, I'm loving every second I play this game, the combat is great I feel like a badass when I win a fight when it's like almost 10 enemies versus me, and exploration is amazing, I really like the fact that there's no constant marker to tell you where to go, just follow the wind to find your objective or just follow your own path.
this is my first ps4 exclusive i've played,im more of the xbox guy i wish i was joking but god damn i cant stop taking photo the world is so **** beautifull
Awesome!!! 10 out of 10! Straight male main character, lots of action, story so amazing and a thousand times better than TLOUP2, at least our main male character doesn't die! Graphics way better than TLOUP2! Everything is way better than TLOUP2! You should buy it, play it, and make this game of the year 2020, there's nothing out there like this, specially from Naughty Dog! All negative reviews must be from Snoy fanboys that love Neil **** and ND+ bad games!
Tiene una historia que empieza suave hasta un poco que no llama la atención pero tiene una progresión brutal y que puedas llevar dos caminos senda de fantasma y la senda del guerrero brutal Talvez su punto flojete sería la cámara y autoenfoque pero si lo hacen notar pondrán un parche para darle solución a la misma En conclusión un juegazo de 10
La historia te mantiene pegado a la pantalla. Las misiones secundarias son excelentes. El combate es increíble y divertido. El mundo es detallado y muy trabajado. Si eres alguien que te gusta el sigilo, también lo vas a disfrutar. Juegazo para cerrar la generación
With everything going on in the world, it feels great to play a game that is not only beautiful and fun, but also an extremely positive and uplifting experience. From creating unique poems while performing haiku over a river bed, to following foxes to secret shrines, to playing the flute in the middle of a thunderstorm, and riding your horse through a vast grassland at dusk, Ghost of Tsushima reminded me how therapeutic games can be. That being said, if the exploration gives the player a sense of relief and calmness, the combat gives you a constant feeling of pure excitement, which to me is on par with God of War. Riding your horse in to attack a mongol encampment in your newest samurai gear covered in blood and mud, really makes you feel like you've created your very own personal samurai to take back Tsushima. And speaking of newest gear, the customization in this game is also something that really resonated with me as well. It isn't saturated with random armor and weapon pieces that you end up discarding after wearing for ten minutes, and they aren't scarce enough to have you expecting more, its the perfect balance. The story and stealth game-play however, are the only areas of the game that I think have noticeable issues, but both still are done well enough, and with the beauty and combat being so superb, its easy to overlook a few shortcomings. Nevertheless, this is an instant classic and a must buy for any PlayStation 4 owner and in my opinion the Game of the Year. .
After The Last of us 2, I write meta review. My Score is generous, if the game has fun thing, I give 10 score. But if not, and if it has educating something, I give 0 score. Because, it is not a game. So I give the TLOU2, 0 score. And I give 10 score to Ghost of Tsushima.

The game is beautiful and the gameplay is great! And what is best is that it is a game without any SJW agendas! The only downside is that it doesn’t have a lock-on system

Its been awhile since I have played a game that I have felt truly engaged with. From its beautiful scenery to its tragic story I can't help but feel every ounce of tender, love and care that Sucker Punch has put into this game. The UI is a bit dated and the camera system is kinda difficult in close quarters but everything superceded those by a milestone. This is definitely GOTY material for me and, honedtly... I can't help but stop, sit back, and take in the beauty of the game. Thank you Sucker Punch studios for putting out such a great title. And Congratulations on a phenomenal release as well!

Ghost of Tsushima is my GOTY( for now). It does hold each and every element to beat the last of us 2 except for Visuals category, ghost of Tsushima beats off my previous favourite game ( TLOU2 ). Buy it blindly..I highly recommend to all those who are thinking of purchasing the ghost of Tsushima. Mark my words, you won't regret spending 60$ on it. ❣️ Loving every single minute of the game What I really liked about it. Great combat system. Good visuals. Great story so far. Amazing side quests. Good open world. Brutal and intensed battles ( if you know how to use combos ) Great skill tree system along with good inventory system. The stance system of a sumirai has been covered well and in depth. Great photo mode :D Makes it a complete contender for GOTY 2020 and perhaps probably should win. Sucker punch did it once more time.
After the Absolute Garbage and the greatest failure in the gaming history TLOU2 , finally we have amazing game to play it... this is the greatest game for PS4 and for the year too, well done Sucker Punch!
Beautiful game, the environment in game is very artistic, awesome combat, skill and stance variety, armor so badass, and you can change skin color of armor, katana too.Story is good so far, side quest is very fun, like witcher 3, its always have story in it.This is a must play game at the end of the ps4 life cycle, thank Sucker Punch for making a best smurai game ever
GOT is a amazing game with beautiful visuals, lush environments, amazing combat, and an exciting story. It incorporates RPG elements very well into the game unlike Assassins Creed, a game that tries to incorporate RPG elements into its game but ends up with repetitive side quests, bland open world, and a grindy level system that forces you to complete side quests to level up and have a chance at the main quests. GoT has interesting side quests like the mythical ones for example. The only problem I have with the game is that raiding camps can be a little repetitive, but the action packed and refreshing combat system helps ease the repetitiveness. As a summary GoT is an amazing game that you should definitely try if you like RPG games, open world games, Japanese culture, or games in general.
After about 20 hours. I have to say this is esthetically one of the most beautiful pieces of media/art I've seen. Every ride through a forest or valley is a picturesque moment of silence that you can't help but enjoy. Ghost of tsushima doesn't reinvent the open world samurai genre, it creates a new standard that the gaming scene will need to follow. Highlights : visuals, combat, music. Opportunities for improvement: frame rate sometimes( even on performance),
This is for you how looking for great samurai game, its look amazing, its play amazing, the sound is amazing, all is amazing, cool katana, omg you need to buy this, for me all 10/10 as a weeb i love this game lmao
العبة خورافية من كل النواحي قصة اصوات عالم كل شي خورافي واسطوري من ناحية القيم بلاي شي اسطوري كل ماتتقدم في القصة القيم بلاي يحلى اكثر المهمات الجانبية خورافية مافيها اي ملل او تكرار وفيها مشاهد تحسها كأنها من القصة وهي مهمة جانبية وجرافيكس العبة خورافي وتصميم الشخصيات بنسبة لي عاجبني وممتاز بس يعيبه تطابق الكلام معا الشفايف بنسبة لنا كعرب اللغة العربية ممتازة والخط الي مختارينه ممتاز العبة بنسبة لي اسطورية وتستاهل لعبة السنة واللي يبي يحس في متعة في التختيم يلعب على مستوى الصعب بتحس متعة اكثر وهذا رأيي

ESTÁVAMOS PRESCISANDO DE UM JOGO ASSIM SEM FRESCURA..... QUE TENHA UMA HISTORIA PRA GENTE JOGAR...OTIMA JOGABILIDADE...
Best Visually looking game i have ever played,despite having some minor bugs its very close to perfection and hats off to sucker punch for giving this masterpiece.
Эта игра мне понравилась буквально всем. Игра поразила меня невероятным контрастом: медитативными путешествиями по прекрасному миру и великолепными и напряжёнными боями, которые на высоком уровне сложности дают неплохой челлендж. Про атмосферу Японии и говорить нечего:все передано прекрасно. Сбжет неплохо увлеквет, хотя ха некоторыми дополнительными квкстами наблюдать намного интереснее. Любителям самурайских фильмов и баталий рекомендую.
Beautiful Game. Good Combat. Great traversal. Great everything 10x better than joel in one: pro golf 10/10 by a consumer that paid money for this game trust my word over a "gaming journalist"
Phenomenal, fantastic, beautiful, relaxing, retrospective, thoughtful, fun, you really couldn’t ask for a better ending to the PS4, if your on the fence go ahead and leap over, so much good!!
The narute ambient and soundtrack from feudal Japan its amazing, the battles with bosses its very intense style dark souls, your history like me feels inside the world of Tsushina, one the best exclusive games for Playstation 4, this game finish that generation whith The golden Key!
THIS GAME IS AMAZING! The only reason it didn't get a 10/10 is because of the camera getting me killed, and it being a little too similar to red dead redemption in its quest structure. But man the combat is so rewarding, and the stealth mechanics are better than most other games with stealth as a feature. I do feel its a little easy on normal, I'm going to replay on hard to see if the combat becomes "souls like"
Great game, a reminder of samurai movies from old Japan, made by director liked Akira Kurosawa and others Satoshi, The Hidden Fortress, Harakiri and others. Sound, graphics was good. Also combat except for the camera movement. But this game should be considered as GOTY.

Beautiful game and beautiful world, one that you will definitely get lost in and spend hours during side quests before realizing. Combat is fun and fluid, nothing groundbreaking but it is extremely satisfying. Definitely a game to cleanse your pallet of any other terrible Sony exclusive that dropped recently.
I won't use the big words reviewers and critics use, only one thing matters to me. I love this game and keep getting back to play and enjoy it. That's enough for me to give it this score.
Ghost of Tsushima At times you play a very convincing and atmospheric game. The game has a good approach to the feeling of classic samurai films and is this a nice tribute to those films, such as Red Dead Redemption 2 that was for classic westerns. What i didint like was the clumsy rotating camera, too many repeating elements in side quests and too many recycled elements in the game world. Fortunately, they are nothing compared to the beautiful images that cant be seen elsewhere. The gameplay is smooth and nice, Ghost of Tsushima at the bottom of the line is definitely worth it.

The story is amazing and it reminds me of classic japanese cinema, the music is very immersive and memorable, the graphics are mind blowing and photo mode is like a dream come true. the combat is very impressive,
I am so glad I spent 70 bucks on pre ordering this game. The gameplay is great, the story is great, the voice acting is great, and the visuals are great. There are a few quirks with this game, however. When playing the game with in Japanese with English subtitles, it’s like an old Godzilla movie, in this case, the original voiceover is English but the dub is Japanese. It’s not too major, but it takes a bit away from the immersion. The cutscenes aren’t the best, as the characters (mostly Jin) speak with no emotion and little to no body language. I’m not worried about the cutscenes though because the rest of the game makes up for it. Moving on to combat, it is a bit repetitive. You use the same moves over and over again, but the combat is still fun and decently challenging. The duels, however, are pretty hard. I think the reason they were hard for me is because I rushed and tried to get in as many hits as I could, but the right way is to play strategically. Now, visually, this game is really good, but there are some things left with bad textures. Some parts of specific armor phases through other parts, which is kind of annoying. The animation for putting away the bow is the only REALLY noticeable thing. It seems like no effort was put into it, but I don’t use the bow much, so it doesn’t bother me a lot. Even through all the quirks, this game is really good. At first I thought the story was a bit generic, but I soon realized it wasn’t. I don’t rate games, but this one was too good, so I have to rate it.
An incredibly beautiful, emotional and deeply aesthetic experience so far, authentic Japanese dialogue feels like the only way to play this game. 9/10 only because it feels like the brutality of a katana, the blood, gore and dismemberment should have been included to make it an R18+ game, but it wasn’t. The simple death animations aren’t as satisfying as they could be, there was so much creative potential there which is regrettable. The combat is immensely enjoyable, but again, feels like a small touch of something is missing. Enemy variety could have been improved as well. All in all, virtually all elements of this game are a work of expert art, if only the few things I mentioned above were addressed I would have happily called it Masterful art.
Ghost of Tsushima is a awsome game! I enjoy the scenery, tales and fighting. This game has so much life in it. Everytime I pick up the sticks it just takes me into another world. I hope in the future they add a online co op mode.
A must play if you love samurai flicks. The story is pretty straightforward, but the breathtaking visuals, stunning soundtrack, and bloody combat all come together to create a transfixing and enormously atmospheric experience. An utter joy. Probably my favorite game of the year so far.
Ghost of tsushima is easily one of the best game to come out this year with such gorgeous locations and environment which is only seen in some open world games like red dead redemption 2 it easily fits in top 5 best looking games in consoles everytime I pass a new location I stop to take a screenshot and man it has awesome photo mode now let's talk about combat earlier the combat is a little bit clunky but as I play through it gets smooth and satisfying the story is simple and has nice pacing not too slow and not too fast there are so many side quests i like finding a shrine and helping th civilians and hunting some bandits it's so full of content I love it even though there are some bugs were character load slowly and the camera angle is bit off but that is only few negatives against a plethora of positives

So glad I did not listen to the “professional reviews” which give it a 83. This game is awesome, gorgeous and fun to play. 9.2 for me. Its an open game world, but I really enjoy the fact it does not feel so complicated or complex. It’s really smooth. AI could be a bit better, and also the life in the towns. But overall its a great game. The story is simple but Awesome as well
GOT is everything Assassins creed isn’t. One of the best games of this gen amazing gameplay, gorgeous open world, well-written side characters and a world demands exploration.
The gameplay is fun and the story is good. The side quests are awesome and has a witcher 3 vibe with it. This game is a masterpiece and a must play. It also makes me want to read the samurai culture. Sucker Punch Studio did an amazing job!
Absolutely stunning and only playing a few hours of it I automatically fell in love with the entire game and that’s a rare occasion. Game of the year for me!
Very, very nice! great open world, great combat system, great graphics and great story. The only caveat is that the game must be played at a high level of difficulty. Thanks.

This game literally has everything, I do not understand giving it anything less than a 9 at the very least. Graphics are out of this world, one of the most beautiful worlds ive ever seen in a video game. The exploration is top notch. The combat is satisfying on another level and animated beautifully. The story is tells such samurai classic story, and it does it well. Amazing game. Highly recommend playing this game. To me this and RDR 2 Are the two games of the generation, haven't played GoW yet. But man oh man, i love this game to death. BUY THIS INSTEAD OF THE LAST OF US 2
Spoiler Warning!!!! I just got through the first area of the game and my god is it ever beautiful. This game was not one I was keeping on my radar, I had no plans of buying it. The night before it launched I decided "what the hell" it beats grinding in destiny 2. The writing can be a bit silly sometimes, a bit corny I guess. However, some of the characters story arcs really surprised me. Ryuzo is a long time friend of the main character, Jin. You assist him and his straw hat ronin multiple times in the first act, how does he repay you? By dueling you at the end of the first act to try and collect a bounty that has been put on your head. However, shortly after, we see Ryuzo with the Mongols leader, basically being told to burn someone alive in order to earn food for his ronin brethren. I actually felt bad for the guy who just tried to cut me into ribbons because he is just fiercely dedicated to his ronin and wants to give them everything he can. The story is going in directions I didn't expect, and even IF the story sucked, the moment to moment gameplay, the combat, the beautiful island of Tsushima, it just makes it all worth while. Drinking in the absolutely stunning views with the incredible draw distance present in this game never gets old. If you have the money and you're into this type of setting (late 13th century I believe). Give ghost of Tsushima a try, it is well worth the $80 (CAD) price tag.
A great and very addictive game with a beautiful story. One of the best music in the video game industry. The map may be smaller than I expected but it is flowing with content. Peace
Excelente jogo, estou curtindo muito, ambientação incrível, que gráficos lindos, um trabalho incrível, um dos melhores jogos do ano com certeza, parabéns a produtora.
Игра шедевр. Очень красивая, хорошо детализирована. Боёвка понравилась. Открытый мир не скучный, хорошо наполненный. Отличный экз на закате приставки.
Un juego donde sus paisajes y banda sonora se hacen recalcar de manera espectacular, sintiendo en la misma isla de tsushima, enfrentandose consigo mismo y sus ideales, sin duda Ghost of tsushima en maravilloso
I've played some open world games but nothing like this. I've played samurai games but nothing like this. Ghost of Tsushima is the game you never knew you wanted. This is the ultimate assassins creed but 10 times better than what ubisoft could ever pulloff
No inveta nada. Pero todo esta genialmente construido. Como juego de samurais le daria un10/10. Esta todo perfectamemte construido. Sus batallas muy samurais muy ninjas. La cultura IMPRESIÓNANTE. Mundo bellisimo. Y los tiempos de carga hyper rápidos. Brutal
Começa meio morno e tem alguns problemas. Porém todos os lados positivos do jogo são tão grandiosos que me fizeram esquecer desses problemas. Fazia tempo que não passava tantas horas explorando um mundo aberto. Encerra a geração com chave de ouro. Mais uma obra prima da Sony.
Its the ultimate final for the PS4 era! Unbelievable graphics, impressive gameplay, a must have for any action/ stealth gamers. A total must own! Big appreciation to the hole team!!!
Эта игра - замах на игру года! Современный ведьмак. Сюжет захватывает, хочется мочить монголов!
The best game I've ever played in my life. minimal UI makes me concentrate on the game, cinematic view and camera cut scenes are just beyond awesome. Thanks to map designer, graphic designer
This is a truly magnificent game! It captures the essence of true samurai warriors. Graphics are top notch, sound is very amazing and gameplay is very innovative and realistic. Sucker Punch definitely didn't disappoint on this game.
One of the best open world's out there. Combat is something we have all played before, but at the same time, is completely new. Story is an emotional rollercoaster for Jin and everyone around him. And the graphics and art direction. WOW. Only hiccups I have seen in the playtime were some bugs and glitches. Overall, Hats off to Sucker Punch.
Just think of Breath of the Wild meets Ninja Scroll. Not giving the game a 10 out of 10 because it is a perfect game, it isn't. Giving an attention to 10 because the vision of the developers was clearly well thought out and accomplished. Combat is amazing, Story is really good. Haven't felt like this over a samurai game since the Onimusha franchise. I'm so interested in the lore I'm reading all of the things I find. The open world has an amazing tranquil feeling despite being at war.
Ghost of Tsushima is my Game of the Year. Gameplay is the most fun I had since Star War and The Last of U Part II. Loving the story and sound design. Using the wind to get to your location instead of waypoints is the perfect way to traverse the map. The camera was a bit off to me but it doesn't take away from the he. All in all this is is a great new IP for Sucka Punch
After 10 hours into the game , I've gotta say it's AMAZING! This is the only game after Gta5 that I've played on release date and I've been hooked since. The katana fights are deliberate and cathartic , you need skills to pull it off. No button mashing. The world is beautiful and ripe for exploring. The graphics are just stunning! Amazing game SUCKER PUNCH!

Наиграл только 4 часа. Но уже рад тому, что сделал предзаказ. Это первая игра за которую я отдал 4.5к рублей. Она красивая, и там есть самураи с самурайскими мечами! Ещё там можно смахнуть кровь с катаны и убрать в ножны. У неё есть свои минусы. Но я их не замечаю. Спасибо за игру!
Сразу нужно отметить что игра не исторична, как разработчики и заявляли, геймплей с прокачкой навыков интеренсные, сюжет нормальный - рассказывающий путь самурая. Арт-дизайн, стилистика, эстетика у игры отличные, к тому же проделана отличная работа с частицами . Хорошая и красивая игра.
Tras 31 horas de juego y haber casi platinado el juego, debo decir que a sido una experiencia increíble. A nivel gráfico Ghost of Tsushima nos ofrece un mundo abierto realmente hermoso que durante toda la experiencia de juego impresiona con sus variados paisajes - detalles y que jamas se volvió cansino. El juego toma como eje principal su precioso mundo abierto el cual puedo decir que es el mas bonito que he visto hasta el momento. En cuanto a su historia, aunque no innova ni impresiona, esta bien escrita y cumple con lo que se espera de este juego, hay que destacar que sus misiones secundarias son muy buenas aunque giren al igual que las principales alrededor del "matar mongoles", sin embargo son divertidas y premian el tiempo que se invierte en ellas con excelentes recompensas. La banda sonora es exquisita, esta muy bien realizada y cumple con lo esperado en el desarrollo de la experiencia de juego. El combate es excelente y es lo mas cercano a una verdadera experiencia de combate estilo samurai que se a tenido en la industria de videojuegos, el uso de la katana así como las posturas y habilidades hacen del gameplay un goce total, sin embargo no se puede decir lo mismo del sigilo pues peca de ser genérico a lo cual hay que sumar que la IA de los enemigos es demasiado promedio, con lo cual vuelve en varias ocasiones demasiado fácil matarlos usando el sigilo. Es importante destacar que el combate en ambientes cerrados es un problema, pues el manejo de la cámara es una molestia pues en ocasiones interpone objetos y paredes lo cual entorpece el combate. La personalización del personaje es muy buena, puesto que podemos mejorar las habilidades, armaduras y armas, etc., todo esto mediante el uso de recursos y interacción con npcs que encontramos en todo el mundo abierto. En conclusión, el juego tiene uno de los mundos abiertos mas bonitos que se han creado para un videojuego que en ningún momento se vuelve cansado admirar sus paisajes. El combate estilo samurai cumple espléndidamente con lo esperado aunque el modo fantasma queda a deber. La IA es promedio y hace que el sigilo se vuelva muy fácil en ocasiones. La banda sonora es excelente para este juego. La personalización esta bien trabajada. La Historia es buena pero no excelente.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best games based on Medieval Japan that I have ever played, very beautiful atmosphere, elegant fighting mechanics, with a simple but well made story, it may not be an innovative open world game, but sometimes you don't need to re-invent the wheel, follow the models and make it perfect, worth the note 10, I recommend this game to everyone who likes adventure games, close the Sony AAA game cycle with a golden key
I am just about 13 hours into Ghost and I felt compelled to write my first Metacritic review ever about it because I have enjoyed it so much so far. The world is breathtaking and colorful beyond imagining. Jin Sakai's story so far has me greatly entertained and the supporting characters are interesting and varied. While some of the quest design does seem a bit generic, it's not generic enough for me to have gotten tired of it yet. I am so excited to see what happens next in Jin's story and it comes highly recommended so far.
Um dos mundos mais bonitos que eu vi em um jogo, sistema de combate incrivel, demora um pouco para acostuma com a "falta" de um targer lock mas funciona muito bem, loads super rapidos, historia boa, simples mas achei bem contada, dialogos interessantes no aspecto moral e filosofico(mas acho q vai de gosto). Pra mim só não é dez porq tem algumas falhas técnicas(bugs inaceitaveis para os games de hoje em dia) e em alguns lugares parece que faltou um "polimento" no grafico Ex: lindíssimo em muitos lugares, daí algo muito feio em um lugarzinho, como se o pensamento fosse "há, aqui não precisa, vamos encerrar esse jogo de uma vez".
It's the best and most beautiful graphic on PS4 in the history. It's like Japanese Assassin's Creed and 2020 PS4 game we are pleased for. In the addition, if you have beaten Sekiro, it's really recommended to play on hard mode.
A game worth to be played. Gameplay very exciting, main, and minor quests in huge amounts and very interesting. The game atmosphere very calm but at any moment can unexpectedly become stressful, full of action. Recommend to any type of gamers.
10 hours into this game i can say its Absolutely a Stunning Game with beautiful environment especially the wind and of the rare games for samurai genre .i really like everything about it and the combat system is so satisfying . 10/10 well done sucker punch
One of the best games I have ever played. Extremely immersive, beautiful setting, and engaging combat. In addition, the main character is great and super fun to play as. The island itself is jam packed with many things to do and see such as mini games, shrines, hot springs, and even writing haikus!

If this is what graphics can achieve in an aging ps4, imagine what could be accomplished with the ps5. The most graphically impressive game in the ps4. The most artistically striking game of the ps4. This game is just gorgeous! Very good combat that is reminiscent of arkham and older assassin's creed combat, before it became grindy and annoying. Up til now the game is a 9/10 for me, need to see where they are taking this story to make it a 10/10. The extra point given is just a middle finger to metascore for pulling this 36 hours bullsh*t which I would support usually but after the last of us 2 debacle you could see their motive is not genuine and it's just for protecting their beloved woke games even when they have bad writing!
Невероятно красивая и кинематографиеская игра, нереально красивая, как тень колоса , вся игра 1 непрекращяющиеся красивый пейхаж
This is the most incredible looking game I've ever played. The beauty of this game is comparable to God of War but unlike GoW, this is an open world game which makes it even more incredible. The UI is minimalistic which makes you look at the beautiful world instead of having your eyes focusing on quest markers. The combat is very much like AC Odyssey but it is done much better. This games makes you experience the lethality of you as a samurai unlike Odyssey where enemies can take hundreds of hits to take down. It falls short of 10/10 for me because: 1. Story is pretty generic. 2. It does not have a huge breakthrough moment in gaming But regardless, it is a very very good game.
Juego espectacular en el apartado artístico, jugablemente es muy satisfactorio e invita por su diseño y belleza a recorrer y descubrir la isla, juego muy recomendable para los amantes del cine samurai.

Sorry my bad ingles,but i can say it is the most gourgeus game i ever played,the art of this game is simple awesome,the combat is really well done,and the side quest is even better then the witcher 3 side quests,really awesome game buy if u can.

В игре много багов и недоработок, но в общем это очень хорошая и интересная в плане геймплея игра. Разработчики взяли очень хороший сетинг для игры, в котором много пасхалок отсылающих на японскую мифологию и другие художественные произведения, конечно хотелось что бы подобного контента было больше, но этого тоже достаточно. Система сражений на первый взгляд кажется очень простой, но когда начинаешь встречать врагов просто путешествуя по миру, то они могут неплохо подпортить настроение, боевая система проработано хорошо, удары чувствуются, она выглядит зрелищно и она тяжелая для освоения новичку в мире игр, и это хорошо, на высоком уровне сложности в игре тебе никогда не бывает скучно. Графика в игре очень красивая и живописная, это не технологический прорыв, но тоже очень хороший уровень. Теперь к плохому, почему в игре такого размаха не проработаны мелкие детали ? Почему я не могу оставить свой след и срубить маленькое дереве мечом ? Это такие мелкие детали которые уже должны быть в играх. Это все придирки которые я могу из себя выдавить, кроме того что в игре нет красивых женщин из-за невидимой руки сами знаете кого. У них получилась очень хорошая игра которая скрасит один месяц лета, я искренне надеюсь что они пофиксят проблемы патчами
The combat is sublime and is pushed even higher by a great narrative that includes characters with great backstories and depth. The exploration is the best exploartion in a game that I have ever played. One of te bet games I've played this year.
Так приятно когда игра превосходит твои ожидания . Призрак Цусимы великолепный продукт под закат пс4.
Literally the best looking game on PS4 in my opinion. The game play also makes me feel like a complete bad ass samurai, or in there words the ghost and stealth your enemies. I absolutely am loving this game.
The developer really took an effort on researching everything about 13th century Japan. The game is really beautiful, though the gameplay needs improvement it could be fixed in the future patches... I really love the authenticity it presents, I was like watching or playing a Japanese Samurai movie. I recommend everyone to buy this game because it pays homage and utmost respect to Japanese culture.
This game is art come to life everything in this world is beautiful and you could just put the controller down and enjoy the environment and the music. The lighting and texture of everything is breathtaking. The gameplay is as well amazing deciding weather to fight as a samurai or ghost this game gives you many options for how to handle this world.
The game's atmosphere is unlike other game. And I see many complaining that the graphics are lower than TLOU2 but the point they are missing that graphics themselves are not what makes the game look good, it requires a ton of other things which I think Ghost of Tsushima does better than any game I have seen so far released. KUDOS to Sucker Punch.
22+ in this game and i can say that it’s pretty good ! The story looks interesting, the world is the most beautiful i’ve ever seen, the exploration is really fun, the graphics are amazing, the fight system is good, and GOT has the best photomode i’ve seen in a video game. The only things that I thought needed better work is the face animation of the characters and a better camera during the fight. Update
Ghost Of Tsushima. pros: - Jin Sakai is a great Protagonist but he takes an hour or two to show it. - Amazing Soundtrack. - Amazing Gameplay, seriously its the best combat system in an open world. crunchy fun to use looks great,weighty,varied,deep.. wonderful Story is Great. - Strong Preformance from the voice actors (played in english cause no lip sync in japanese). - Interesting Characters. - Side missions are good and dont feel like filler. - Graphics and Art Work/Degisn is GOD TIER. seriously this is even a small level above RED DEAD 2. - the Leveling System is fairly deep and does its job nicely. mixed - Technically (ps4 slim) its a hit and miss. but mostly hit, PS4Pro is flawless from what i read. closing thoughts these "professional" reviewers once again prove how irrelevant they are. games losing points for not reinventing the wheel, while others dont. this is one of the best games of the Generation but you wouldnt know that by looking at the "professional" scores ( which are solid but are doing a great disservice to the game ), now i thought Second Son was mediocre to pretty good at best but Sucker Punch really stepped up BIG TIME, they are on the level of Santa Monica to me now. looking forward to your next game, ill be there day 1.

Para fechar a geração com chave de ouro, um dos MELHORES jogos do PS4 com certeza. Gráficos INCRÍVEIS, jogabilidade muito boa, combate INCRÍVEL e uma história realmente boa. Comprem e se divertem.
Beautiful graphics, great artwork, good story, and some fun exploration gameplay... why 8? Very shoddy camera in particular when in combat - its frustrating when you lose battles because you cant see what you are fighting (especially indoors), poor AI, and lazy stealth mechanics. Despite its shortcomings the overall experience is still good, definitely worth it if you are into this sort of thing.
Мне в целом нравится AC но (DLC в истории и миктротранзации в механики игры убили игру) Ghost of Tsushima -> для меня AC на максималки, с полной историей и без миктротранзаций. Интересная подача сюжета, красивая графика, красивое сражение на мечах. Есть мелкие недочеты, но как убили систему оценок, игра 10-ка. Отмечу что, на YouTube графику вы не почувствуете.
Это лучшая игра про самураев, в которую я когда-либо играл!!! Атмосфера-просто пушка!
I've been playing for at least 10hrs so far, and I'm still only halfway through Act 1. That's how much I've been enjoying exploring this world. It's the best looking game that I have seen on the PS4 and the combat is fantastic. Some of the photo's I have taken in game of the scenery is just gorgeous and hard to believe that it isn't real. Only complaints I have is sometimes the camera control in combat is annoying and I wish that the Japanese audio would match the mouth movements.

WOW, What a game, visually stunning in every aspect. Now to put things into perspective there are certainly issues with the game, some of the story and dialogue. Some of the character animations seems rushed, or borderline unfinished. But. The navigation/direction system is a stunning and unique mechanism. The colors are absolutely nothing short of amazing, the areas all feel different and fresh each time. Even the enemies while there are a core set of enemies, different areas have different types of these sets and they all feel different. While this feels like it has borrowed the camera from Assassin Creed, it feels like it has borrowed the art and soul of games like Nier Automata, or GRIS. There were times in the first few hours where I caught myself just watching the landscapes. The multiple combat stances, while at first seems a bit cumbersome, as you get used to them switching to match your opponents becomes easy and second nature. Visually stunning, 100% recommend. Ghosts of Tsushima is the best game to be released so far this year.
I have played just shy of 20 hours, keep this in mind when reading. Also, english is not my native language. Im a big fan of the feodal Japan. Love films such as Yojimbo by Kurosawa and many other cultural expressions from Japan, such as the food. Ghost of tsushima is one of these wonderful gems that tells a tale from i Japan long gone. The atmosphere is amazing, the game looks wonderful. The duels are magical. I also like the fightingsystem. Button mashing wont work here. There are much to do in this game, and many things are done very good. The stealthpart is for example way better than what assassins creeds stealth is. Upgradesystem is very free to choose what you want to play like. Control is flawless. Then you die it is because of you. Thus things does not feel unfair, and I love that. Negatives? Well, few things. Like forces long stealthmissions. Don't like those. Otherwise the game have alot of variation and stuff to do. And that is great. Best game from the studio so far!
Ultimate samurai Fantasy! Not perfect but the whole package leaves you fulfilled and satisfied. Pros: Combat is visceral and satisfying Gorgeous visuals and set pieces (constantly using photo mode) Best samurai experience in any game to date Amazing soundtrack Great story and side characters Cons: Some repetitive gameplay moments A few bugs that need to be addressed
while looking pretty there are some issues with textures and frame rate drops, and the character animations could've been done better. nice game overall, but nothing more. ratings in the 80s seems about right for this one.


25+ hours in I can say this is 100% a must buy. This is probably the most artistically beautiful game of a generation. It's gritty, visceral combat combined with the scenic backdrop are truly something special. This game bleeds authenticity and it truly feels like sucker punch poured thier heart and sole into this game.
EXCEEDS MY EXPECTATIONS FOR GAMING This game has used all the mechanics we loved and mashed it together into a master piece. Ghost of Tsushima Horses: Free, infinite health stamina, bodies bears mongols dogs and boars like 1000 degree knife through butter, auto jump obstacles, and always there for you ❤️⛩ Red Dead Redemption 2 Horses: Oh no snake boo boo

One of the best games released for the PS4 period. The combat is excellent, the story i gripping, the world is absolutely stunning and the music is top notch. I honestly adored this game and it sits aside God Of War as the best 1st party PS4 game. I would rate this a 9.5/10 but because it can either be a 9 or 10 here then I will round to a 10 as a 9 seems too harsh

Sucker punch started this generation and now made the last exclusive ps4 and it looks beautiful. Solid gameplay and so much to explore. If you are into the old Japanese setting, you are definitely gonna have a great time here. Its not perfect but the good parts definitely are standing out. I ve always wanted an open world samurai game and now we finally have it, im so happy with this game so far (20 hours +)

Une direction artistique magnifique Ambiance japonaise très bien retranscrite Des combats techniques et tranchants Histoire intéressante Les visages sont un peu lisse Certaines mécaniques brut
The games story is solid but it's def gonna need a sequel for it to earn a 10/10 story it's a solid 8 there. Although this game shines in it's game play and map design. This game is beautiful while yes not amazing graphically in some textures it's still beautiful. Lush green grass nice trees and all kinds of more yes moments graphically there is always something moving and lively which makes it incredible. The Combat is absolutely flawless it is responsive and very accurate in it's feedback it's precise. The combat also just feels great and it's never over bearing. The combat is what makes this game shine and is a reason to play. It never gets tiring. This game is a nice thing to have after TLOU2 failure and is def worthy of a GOTY nomination.
Хорошая игра, без пидоров, лгбт и прочего говна. Любителям японщины точно понравится.
This is the most visually pleasing game I have ever played possibly dethroning Skyrim and HZD. Combat may feel like the usual hack and slash at first but once you master and it gets going, it makes you feel like a master Samurai. Playing this game at times feels like watching a moving painting.
No checkboxes and no Abby makes this game the PS4 GOTY for 2020. Hope developers get the message but we gotta see. 10/10, what a lovely way to say goodbye to the PS4 era.
This games is f amazing, the graphics, the combat, animation and the island of Tsushima is absolute beautiful. I think this game is gomita yo sin the game of the year

I am currently playing it and I love it!!!! I love the different characters that are being shown. The world is outright gorgeous and you become a more and more badass samurai as u go more into the game. One of the best games that I have ever played!!!

This is an incredible open world game. It's the most beautiful one I have seen and exploring the world is a real treat. I am actually not that into open world game, but this one takes the cake. It's not flawless, but the visuals, world and combat are really good and it deserves much praise. Importantly, it is possible to follow the main story (Jin's tales) and there is no grind whatsoever. This game blows AC out of the water. I am enjoying it more than I did RDR2, although the story the writing isn't as strong. Support this game! It's not getting enough recognition.
Great game the combat feels nice and has a nice skill curve, the game environment is full of life and enjoyable to explore I would give this game a 10 if it wasn’t for the terrible camera, while playing you will die because of the camera a few times. [For new players] don’t waste your skill points on any of the locations it’s a waste of skill points you can find the areas by following yellow birds and following foxes to their den
So good. I see a lot of influences from BOTW, Shadow of the Colossus, The Witcher etc but remade into an incredible Samurai open world fantasy. So far it’s absolutely incredible. I’m a huge fan of Soulsborne, Sekiro, BOTW, The Witcher, Nioh etc and this game is up there. What a way for PS4 to finish off this generation.
Amazing game. Story is awesome, combat is perfectly balanced, nice flow between present and flashbacks in the game and of course the game is absolutely gorgeous. Most beautiful open world-game ever made. You just want to go and explore everything. Sucker Punch nailed it. Gonna be my GOTY.

Easily one of the best games ever, the game needed to polish some more details but is overall a very good game, the fighting is one of the best systems ever, definitely recommend
Tsushima is a great game, it could be a rrally exceptional but has some flaws that didnt let me enjoy it as much as i wanted, nothing major but still... First the lipsync if you play in japanese is awful, the game was motion captured in english and it shows. Second the absense of lock on target. If you olay in hard mode as i do you really need a dark souls like lock on target because you need various stances to kill different enemies and it gets hard trying to hit an enemy just with the right stick. Lastly the story is not something great, its good but it doesnt have a major impact to you. Overall its a great artistic experience with a good revenge story (unlike tlou2) im going for platinum, i really enjoy my time!
Одна из лучших игр этого года!Прекрасный сюжет,графика,огромный открытый мир,фантастическая боевая система. Всем рекомендую.
Finished the story....still a long way to make it platinum.....i reccomend to buy this game, its AMAZING, the combat is awesome, you need to get used to it first.....the world is big and the visuals of it is jaw dropping.....love it, congratulations suckerpunch and sony.



I have thoroughly enjoyed my time with this game. Is it perfect?......definitely not. It is great but it could have done with a little more polishing prior to release Pros- -The world is absolutely stunning -The combat feels genuine and authentic -Fighting isn’t too easy but it also isn’t impossibly difficult -Photo mode is exceptional offering an array of various options -Customisation And abilities are great with a vast array of Options Cons- -Playable character is able to walk through dead bodies. Minor but this lack of detail is slightly disappointing. -The camera can be slightly annoying at times. When fighting a group the camera constantly needs to be adjusted. It’s even worse when fighting in a forest as trees tend to obstruct your view -companions have a habit of getting in the way -For an open world game I felt it could have been a touch longer I would recommend you buy this game, especially if you are into Samurais or Japanese history/culture Sucker Punch have certainly pulled it out of the bag this time. Perhaps on the next update or any future sequels the game could be refined just a little.
Love it Amazing graphics the fight is so good ❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️❤️
Просто глоток свежего воздуха. Красота, атмосфера, оптимизация. Sucker Punch спасибо за игру. Игра приносит море удовольствия и фана.

Графика в игре топ, сюжет топ, японская культура отражена идеально, лучший эксклюзив от Sony в 2020 году, с этой прекрасной игрой я увлёкся и забыл про то сранье, что высрал нам Нил Дрюкмен.
Интересный древнеяпонский сеттинг хороший гейм-дизайн. Нет SJW пропаганды, которую пихают игрокам, когда они этого не просят (+2 балла за это).

Ghost of Tsushima is in one word Gorgeous. Following the wind to reach your destinations is the most unique and befitting a samurai game. The combat is exciting and evolves over time, the photo mode is brilliant and trust me ,you will be taking alot of pictures. Stealth isn't all that great but its just an option,story is fine and characters are great. overall its a must play game if you are into open world rpg games or if you love samurai movies.
Ghost of Tsushima isn't the most groundbreaking game of all time. It doesn't need to be. Sucker Punch manages to breath some new life to the old open world - genre. Genre that is often plagued by meaningless collectibles and sidequests. I didn't get that from GoT. Beautiful world to explore and if some granny wants you to whoop some mongol-ass, sign me up. The combat is phenomenal. For me, it just works.


.I’m playing it I’m enjoying the beautiful scenery, the gameplay is nice to play, there are small errors in the game, but I know the production will release an update soon, for those who love samurai and action games I really recommend taking the game the production is congratulations
No other game has got me into exploration as this one did. I decided to do a few side missions before going on with the main story, and several hours later, I’m still exploring undiscovered locations and doing side missions.
Игра получилась отличная, картинка которую я вижу просто захватывает дух,я каждые пять минут останавливался чтобы зайти в фото режим. Игра идет стабильно,но на моей фатке в нагруженных сценах фпс чуть чуть проседает,ну это уже из за железа, выжимают послежние соки с консоли!
Классный сюжет, отличный геймплей, хорошо прописаны персонажи, RPG состовляющие на хорошем уровне. Жаль, что выбор в диалогах особо не влияет. Моя PS4 FAT идет конечно в некаторых моментах на взлёт. Графика 7/10
Enjoying the game very much. Only reason I didn’t give it higher is because a lot of the missions I’m doing at the moment are a bit samey. Follow the footsteps and investigate or kill. Other than that there’s always something to do. If it’s following a bird to a location to finding settlements that need help.

Gdy po raz pierwszy zobaczyłem grę na gameplay, pomyślałem, fajnie wygląda, taki assassin tylko w Japonii. Kupiłem i zostałem oczarowany grą. Klimat jest niesamowity, muzyka, te drzewa które zmaga wiatr, liście, ptaki i piękne zachody słońca. System walki który bardzo mi przypadł do gustu, wielka, wręcz ogromna mapa. Brakowało gier o samurajach, GOT pięknie wpasował się w ten klimat, polecam każdemu kto lubi właśnie takie klimaty.
Love the game, story is good, the vizuals .... few times had to stop and just be amazed by it, its hard to believit how open world looks so amazing, hands down best game of the year so far other games just looks like crap, I mean dogy poop if you get my meaning
The game who made me sign up to metacritic, Super beautiful and immersive, Relateable characters ,beautiful graphics and compelling story. Highly recommended.
Amazing game! Beautiful graphics. Gameplay is sublime. Finally a good game with a great story. The combat is so intuitive and precise. For any fan of Samurai games or movies this A no brainer. I remember hoping for another Onimusha or a Red Dead but feudal Japan. Well hope no more! The game is just incredibly well done and the open word is filled with so much to do and beautiful vistas. Great job Sucker Punch!!

Un jeu graphiquement jolie présentant des belles couleurs, des musiques qui donne une ambiance de zenitude tout en présentant l'art et la poésie de la culture Japonaise. Ghost of Tsushima présente un concept proche d'un Assassin's Creed, un monde ouvert diversifiant avec des techniques de combats diversifiés (mode bourrin ou discrétion) à vous de voir votre façon d'insérer les camps ennemis. Ce jeu est pour ma part un bon jeu
Ghost of Tsushima is the best game I have played in 2020. The combat is downright amazing and once you begin to master it you feel like a Samurai killing machine. The game offer tons of variety and ways to take down your opponents. The game also has some of the best side missions I have experienced since the Witcher 3. Graphics are on par with any modern day title and the world itself is one of the best I have ever seen. The foliage and trees sway around you and the lighting effects are second to none. Sunsets are a joy to behold and I don't think I have ever used photo mode as much as I did in this game. The story can be a bit cliche at times but I am a huge fan of Samurai lore and have been ever since I read Shogun in 7th grade so I eat this stuff up. I experienced very few glitches while playing and load times are some of the fastest for any game I have ever played. I could go on for hours about how much fun I had with this game but I will just finish by saying after the rough year we have all had Ghost of Tsushima was the breath of fresh air I needed.
Absolutely in love with this game, story is engaging and very interesting, plenty of quests and places to discover, every inch of this game is like a painting and the combat has depth and meaning as it evolves. Overall its everything you could want in a a video game
Очень крутая и атмосферная игра, сакерпанч молодцы! За то что не стали добавлять левелы как в криде доп плюс.
Pleasantly surprised on this awesome game.. after Last of us 2 I wasn't planning on dropping $60 on a game so soon but I had to play it and I really like it I'm about 20 hours into the story and I cant ger enough
The assassins creed in feudal Japan Ubisoft should've made. Beautifully crafted and while the genre is familiar, possibly one of the best examples of it. Combat is more nuanced than AC, needs timing and has a wide variety of stances, abilities and weapons. A fitting swansong for the PS4.
Спасибо большое студии Sucker Punch Productions за хорошую без ненужных повесток игру,надеюсь и в дальнейшем,что студия будет двигаться по тому же пути)
One of the most beautiful and well crafted open worlds I have ever experienced. On a technical standpoint, this game is a 10/10 for me. The sound is amazing as it transports the player perfectly into the world, so do the graphics and the art direction. The diversity of the environment is something not many open world games achieve so effortlessly and the tight controls make interacting with the world as catchy as it should be. The world feels alive and everywhere little stories are told through the environment to reinforce the theme of the mongol invasion. I was never particularly interested in feudal japan but Sucker Punch managed to create such an intriguing and interesting world that I find myself exploring every bit and being amazed by the lore, the architecture, the technology, the culture and so on. The gameplay is amazing. I love how Sucker Punch chose to make navigation almost entirely diegetic. It feels like you're really exploring Tsushima, without ruining the immersion because a new marker popped up on the UI. The activities itself are nothing special for a modern open world game but I got hooked many times by the interesting and mysterious story of a side quests. Important characters are introduced through quest chains which are interesting and well done. The underlying systems work very well together and create meaningful game loops that make you want to participate in every activity the game offers. I like the customization even tho I would have wished for more performance based progression in the form of gear. You can unlock many abilities throughout your playthrough that alter your playstyle significantly. The stealth is ok, the combat is flawless. This is the only game that manages to achieve the feeling of being a powerful samurai warrior. Challenging foes and killing them with precise strikes and perfectly timed parries was never that satisfying. The controls are responsive and snappy which is absolutely mandatory for a game like this. The art direction and technical execution is breathtaking. When I travel by horse I almost never ride fast because I want to take in the beautiful scenery. There were so many moments that made me stop and just enjoy the fidelity and the beauty of the environment. Some particular scenes were so beautiful that I remember them very clearly, like riding through an orange forest, leaves falling down and the light on the edge of that forest glowing like it wanted me to know where I had to go. I'm sure I forgot some things but I think you get what I'm trying to say. Sucker Punch did a phenomenal job and I hope they get the success they deserve. Congrats on a nearly perfect game.
The gameworld is beautiful, stunning, graphics and animations are good, combat is fun and they found a middle way, not too simple, not too complicated. I love the stories within the game, love the progression and upgrade system. It's the most fun i had with a game in a while. It's a solid 9 for me. It's a better Assassins Creed, if you want, for me at least.
Игра прекрасна, пожалуйста сделайте продолжение, а лучше Историю Химуры Кенсина в этом же стиле)


This is how a open world game is done. Blows both recent ass creed games out of the water. Ubisoft take notes. Also naughty dog take notes just because you are hacks.

I have only played about 10 hours so my rating might change by the end of the game, for better or worse. So far, the game is really fun and has a average but engaging story which I am liking. The combat and gameplay is smooth and works very well. I only have problems with the stealth aspect of the game, not that I see problems in it, it was just a less fun part of the game. I love that you don’t have to look at a mini map to check where you need to go but rather they used the wind, this allows you to look around and see all the environments in the game which are really beautiful. Now, I don’t like the open world part as much. I find it boring and repetitive as it doesn’t offer anything new. The open world feels similar to rdr2. Other than that the game is good and I’m enjoying it.
From the opening section when you ride out into a field of white flowers and you see the sucker punch logo I was just in love this is the game its beautiful and the combat is really fun with a lot of depth especially as you unlock more abilities. If you love well done open-world games with good story great voice actors fun combat this is the best money you'll spend this year.

This is definitely a great game. You can argue if it's a masterpiece, but you can't deny the beauty of it. You can clearly see the love that was put in this game. Maybe the textures are not as good as TLOU2 or RDR2 but the landscapes and the visuals are among the best of all time. Story wise this game may not deliver a groundbreaking experience but it's good enough to keep you on the track. It has also one of the best the best sword gameplay. I love this game and I am looking forward to experience it on the PS5 again. I doubt its gonna win, but it is definitely a GOTY contender.
This game is nearly perfect and if I could give a 9.5, I would have done. Visuals: Perfect Music: Perfect Gameplay: Perfect The only very little thing is that the lip sync is setup for the English language, so when I initially selected to play with Japanese with English subtitles, the mouths did not match and I had to change to English. Please patch that in Sucker Punch and this would be a 10 for me.


Its one of the best games I played this year, can't wait for any DLC or new game plus mode to come to the game thanks sucker punch for giving us a game for the gamers..

This game is the best ps4 game until now. The Setting, the story, the characters, everything is flawless. I also love the details like how he puts his sword back, how he swings the sword. Everyone who know kendo sees the perfection.
Alright, first of all, let me start off by saying that the game is a Playstation exclusive so it automatically removes the option to give the game a score under 9 since that would make you either a hater or an Xbox fanboy. Now since we got that outta the way let's start the review. You play as this guy named Jin, you can see that the game is awesome when your character is named Jin. Your main weapon is a sword and you can ride horses, I mean which game ever did that huh? For the first few hours of the game, it really feels like that game was made by the creators of "Bubsy 3D" but as you progress through the story you can clearly see that the game holds a spot right next to games like "Knack" and "Super Mario Bros 2". The AI System is God tier in this game, with this new technology the enemies can even smell you. So if you're a weeb and you haven't take a shower in 3 weeks the game punishes you by saying " No, the Japanese can smell too you dumba**". So anyway, Behnam told me to give the game a 10/10 and that's what I'm gonna do. Masterpiece.
Такой захватывающий и красивый мир. Мне нравится, как легко меня отвлекают побочные квесты каждый раз, когда я пытаюсь идти по сюжету. Это будет шикарный месяц в компании с тсусимой!
el camino de Samurai toda una delicia si lo llevas con amor es una maravilla.... este era un juego necesario para cerrar la generación desde hoy un juego necesario en cualquier colección, de los mejores mundos abiertos jamas comercializados
This game is totally breathtaking, from its scenic beauties to the awesome portrayal of Japan and its culture, the smooth combat system (though i would like to point out the camera was a bit of trouble at first, but you will get used to it) and its emotional and engaging story . Sucker punch really stepped up their game. I have enjoyed every ounce of it. Also i don't understand the critics giving this low scores ( GameSpot this one is at you), yes i know the game has bugs but don't they all !! and it does not hamper the game experience to the point where it need to be critical thrashed just on its release. Also, every other critic review i watch points out the generic repetitive mission which is a far stretched accusation specially for this game, but even then no game can have all their mission unique, heck even red dead 2 has repetitive mission in fact every game which is an open world has repetitive mission. All in all this is a great game which every Ps4 owner should experience. Don't let the critic review's influence you otherwise.
For me, its the best ps4 game of 2020, and, maybe, the game of the year. It's like to play Kurosawa movie. All Game aspects from graphics to story are amazing. The level of immersion in culture of Japan is beyond praise. Give it a try.
I absolutely love this game, the graphics on the pro are awesome, the story is great, combat absorbing and I think the size of the world and the amount you can do is amazing. I know it's my favourite game this year and look forward to spending hundreds of hours on it, I'm going to really drag this game out.
A very atmospheric game with a good immersion in Japanese samurai culture. The original voice acting works wonders, reminded Sekiro very much, it is also worth leaving the original voice acting in it so that the immersion is better. The game has small problems, but I am ready to put up with it, this game is good and it can be forgiven for minor mistakes. There are protracted moments, but they did not cause much discomfort, it is interesting to study the world after playing 11 hours, I want more, I have no desire to abandon the game altogether, although the previous Sony exclusive after 7 hours was already tired and I sold the disc with the game to return at least some money, but Gost of Tsushima I definitely won't sell, the game is worth it to be in my library of games. I will most likely replay the game in half a year or a year.
Visual is an art here you forget its a game and stop playing just to look around, good gameplay finally , few bugs just load checkpoint, but though it feels red dead redemption 2 in open world its abit better, story is ok, but damn that visual 4 days 30+ hours play so far and still many hours to go wohoo Sucker Punch for the win ( best 2020 ) game sofar, here´s how not to screw people over, no microtransaction bullsh*t. can only recommend it,



This is sucker punch’s best work to date , apart from lip syncing issues and a average story everything else is a masterpiece from the next gen graphics to the exhilarating combat to the progressive smart a.i and finally a world u couldn’t have imagined that could ever be made this immersive in a video game . Well done sucker punch. You earned your spot among the top dogs.
An easy game to review. I enjoyed the combat. Story, world and gameplay. Something of note: Interesting skill tree. Quick load. Soundtrack and 3D audio. Interesting artistic choices. Downside: side story NPC lack of animation. Overall I think suckerpunch almost achieved what they were after.

You'll find yourself saying WOW a lot with this game. From the moment you start to the first time you get to freely roam the island and see the beautiful vibrant vistas.
This game is not something new. This game is something else. Something quite addictive. You are about to return to it. Every single day. Flawless gameplay. Amazing open world. Great side activities. Stunning visuals. This game deserves every single cent spent on it. Definitely MUST-BUY game. Looking forward to GOTY title.
Sucker Punch knocked this one out of the Park. It is very deserving of a 9/10 if not a 10/10. The visuals were stunning. Never did I find myself board just riding around on Sora (The name I gave my horse). The story was paced amazingly, and while I predicted the end to an extent, It in no way altered the emotional affect it had. The combat is very fluid and brutal. Brutal In two ways. Brutal in the aspect of :My god... that was a viscous way to kill someone" and brutal in the fact that YOU WILL DIE.I have just finished the story 15 minutes ago (at the time of writing) and I still have a plethora of quests to do, hot springs to bathe in, haiku's to write, bamboo to cut and Mongols to kill. So if you'll excuse me, I must tend to that.

Gameplay - 9/10 (stels - 9/10, fights - 8/10, bosses - 10/10, open world - 8/10), realism - 8/10, both (gameplay & realism) - 10/10. Graphics are beautiful in motion, but not perfect (9/10). Story - 9/10. Characters are interesting and realistic. Well... game is not perfect, but for Tenchu fans (like me) it is GOTY so far. Game - 9/10. Not less.


Наверно самый главный плюс игры, это боевая система, а так же отсутствие уровня, все решает мастерство игрока. Так же плюс в боевике это стойки, напомнили мне первого ведьмака. Так же квесты как основные так и доп очень хороши, все разные и рассказывают определенную историю. Радует так же разнообразие противников, которые не дают скучать. Единственный минус для меня, это слабый стелс, но это не критично.
Going to be honest from start: i only have a few hours in it, so some opinions are liable to change in time, but: Graphically speaking, looks great, but I think games such as God Of War and Horizon Zero Dawn actually ended up drawing more out of the PS4 Pro, to be honest. Still, not a bad looking game at all, the scenery is amazing. Just... I disagree when I see some reviews saying it is the best graphics out of ps4, bla bla. Good, yes. Best, no. Voice acting is by far my favorite part of the game. It feels like they used actual japanese people speaking english, and I love it. Each phrase, each word, feels like it was used with the needed power in it. The story seems interesting so far, in it's old fashioned samurai way. Must play much more before I can give a proper story opinion. A bit repetitive, but enjoyable Game works great with Sabaton - Shiroyama in the background
We all can agree at this point, any open world comes out the first feeling we get is skepticism whether it will be a chore to explore, whether it will get repetitive after a while, whether it will be grindy in terms of combat & crafting. Ghost aims is to improve & refine these. Does it succeed ? It very well improves for the most part. The best decision that Sucker punch made is to establish a clear identity for the game as a stylish samurai drama game right from the start in every aspect. Its not gonna be grounded in reality, its set in real history setting but is a fiction & gamified, story & characters are dramatic, over the top,its stylish there is a consistent art style & flair to everything right from the menus, UI, world, environment. What this achieves is such a natural flow of how we play the game & what we see in it. A beautiful flow just like its wind... The wind guidance might seem like a one off gimmick from trailers & gameplay, but i cannot stress enough on the immersion it creates and makes exploration so organic. The exploration of this game is heavily inspired from Zelda Botw and am glad for that. I have had continuous long gameplay sessions without opening the map & menu more than a few times. This makes us observe this beautiful world more which fuels into curiosity & exploration. We hear about rumors and points of interest from talking to npcs. Every area has its own visual style so you can clearly associated with it after a while and easily memorize the map. Crafting & gathering materials is simple as ever, you never once feel the need to go out and collect any materials nor do we ever feel like i have to get this upgrade to progress, it all just happens naturally as we play. A big thanks for not keeping any slightest animation for gathering, whether you are on foot/horse just a button press near the tree branch/flower/supplies and its in our inventory. While choosing quests you are shown what rewards you will get, in the open world if you place cursor on any location it will list all the vendors there, what new items/upgrades so we dont need to go there and check everytime. There are so many refinements like these that i can keep on talking about. Bottomline is all these together contributes to such a natural flow of gameplay that i never once felt like i am doing something unnecessary. I am loving the characters and story so far. Jin is a likeable protagonist. The combat was one aspect i was worried a lot before release , it was basic at start but it opens up to so much depth that i did not expect. The controls are tight, there are lot of skills, techniques and weapons to use. The standoffs are amazing. Combat isn't hard like in Sekiro, but it has more variety and flair and for me i found this more fun. Also i personally like that there is no lock on. About the visuals, art design and sound its pure zen-like and mesmerizing throughout ! The videos and screenshots don't do justice. The photo mode deserves an award ! Now coming to the remaining of the "improves for most part". The quest design is something that is definitely lacking. Their story, premise are interesting but the structure is were the game falters. Most of them involve age old design like meeting someone, following them for a while talking to them, then arrive at a location where quest happens. It sure helps world building, but gets old quite soon. But thanks to the story, combat and quest objectives this doesn't impact the experience as much as it would generally. Except for the main cast the NPC animations overall are very rigid , sometimes i feel too many fade to black cuts in cutscenes. The good old camera problem especially in tight places where there is no transparency if we are behind any wall/drapes. Overall its such a breath of fresh wind , positive and a soulful gaming experience. SuckerPunch & Sony knocked it off the park.
Wow .... been anticipating this game for months And it payed....... best intro of a game .period Stunning graphics.... sharp combat .. very interesting story ( based on real history) and characters...
Tight and intense combat that always feels fresh in every enemy encounter and gives you the true feeling of fighting as a samurai. A variety of tools are also available to complement this combat and to feed into whatever play styles the player chooses. Intriguing story with a small but good cast of characters that tells a fine and bloody tale of the Mongolian invasion of Japan. Main protagonist is well developed throughout the story whilst the antagonist was felt unique and original. Character progression is also very good with a lot of ways to build up Jin as a samurai and as the ghost. Atmosphere and environments of the game is the best I’ve seen in any game world and is one of the highlights of this game together with the fantastic combat. Music and sounds also complements the environments perfectly and there’s a lot to look for here with traditional Japanese music to Mongolian throat signing in some combat encounters an. English voice acting is pretty good however have not tried Japanese voices as of yet but going from the trailers the syncing with voice and mouth motion but it could be fixed. There is also a plethora of side activities and stories to follow aside from the main campaign that adds several hours of gameplay and value to this already awesome game world. All in all, a fantastic game that had high expectations but delivers on everything it promised and more. A great send off for the last PS4 exclusive of this console generation and a mature experience to show how Sucker Punch has developed as a studio since the Infamous games. now.
Best game I've ever played. This game is perfect for anyone who likes samurai, samurai movies or Japanese culture.. im 20hours in and I can't stop playing this masterpiece. THANK YOU SUCKERPUNCH

I am a huge fan of samurai movies, and pretty much anything set in old school Japan. This game ticked all the boxes for me. Amazing combat that is surprisingly deep, beautiful world to explore, and meaningful side content to do. This is a true masterpiece as far as I'm concerned.
Let's be real **** clear here. This game is miles better than The Last of Us Part 2. Yeah I said it. I see a bunch of you trying to "counter review bomb" this ish. Well that ain't about to happen. Honestly though, they are two very different games. TLOU2 goes hard with the narrative and I enjoyed that. Ghost is absolutely an open world game and you're free to do whatever you please whenever you please as you progress the story. So there's that. The combat is amazing, and honestly this has to be the most beautiful video game I've ever played. Seriously, I wish I lived in feudal japan now.
This is a beautiful game with a lot of things to do, combat is always something to look forward to , plus it’s very challenging, I love that about the game, few problems here and there but the game makes up for it when you get lost in the world of Tsushima


This....this is worth your time. 100%. Open world, great combat, beautiful story. Do yourself a favor and do a search for "Akira Kurosawa", and you will definitely identify the homage this game pays to him. Amazing!
Gameplay: 10.10 Story.8.5.10 Side quest.10.10 Graphics.10.10 The game show to us its one of the best samurai game with Japanese culture i enjoy playing legendary side quest...


Whether you like Samurai/Japanese culture or if you never heard of it and are curious to learn about it, this game is for you. No other western studio has come even close to this level of accuracy while making it this fun...I don't want to say the "it makes you feel like a samurai" but it truly does! most entertaining time I had for a long time. definitely recommended it's a masterpiece! Now to the non-spoiler details. I like to start with the worst first (although there is not that much bad things about it): The Ugly: Nothing is ugly about this game it's the most beautiful game I've ever played but relatively the worst thing about this game is the stealth/Assasin mechanics with bugs and dumb AI. Although its only competition from AAA games is assassin's creed and it easily goes way above and beyond that mess of a game so I didn't care about that. Plus if you choose to stay true to your Samurai ideals like me you won't even notice it. The Bad: The story, the protagonist, and the mo-cap in Japanese could've used a little refinement. Here too is not literally bad but like a freshly washed, ironed snow-white shirt even a little hair can be seen from a mile. So it's more like the mediocre not the bad. And finally the good: There are a million beautiful things you won't be able to forget coming out of this game so if you can pass the above-said negatives, Everything else is a positive. The game strives to be unique and solve a lot of the issues with this genre of open-world games and succedes but I prefer you experience it first hand and not read about its details like I did...it will definitely help you immerse yourself even more in this beautiful game.

amazing game with great combat. if you wanna feel like a samurai buy this game or if you just want a good game to play buy this game. you will get lost in the world in the best possible way. island of tsushima feels alive you wont see the same place more then twice ( unless its tide to the main story). this is the best swansong game for the ps4 cant wait for ps5
In my opinion it does many things better in terms of story, open world and gameplay than the assassins creed reboots origins and odyssey. Its an absolut beautiful game and a wonderful end of the ps4-era. Chapeau Sucker Punch

Espera que sería un juego tirando a “normalito” después de los leer los análisis de la prensa, pero me he encontrado con el mejor sandbox de la generación. Para mi, un firma candidato al GOTY 2020.
The game is simply excellent, I did not expect a wow effect from the game. The game is very big, but there are a lot of activities in this world that I really liked. I haven't seen such good games in this genre for a long time. Thank You Sucker Punch
You have stances just like Nioh, you have a cool bow that is very satisfying to shoot at enemies heads, and you have stealth as well, like SEKIRO stealth but with more stuff. You have char customization, they're very unique, I'm using a traveller set to find stuff as I pass by, my DS4 starts to vibrate when I'm near a collectible. Combat is fast, never underestimate even the weakest enemy, I'm loving the villain of this game, also, apart from all the combat, is a very relaxing game, the world is so beautiful, that you will try to take lots of pictures of the landscape, or just slaughtering some enemies. Also, everything loads do quick, after you die takes like 3 or 4 seconds to the respawn. Fast travels are also really fast
Ghost of Tsushima is a Breathtaking experience with it's amazing Visuals and Sound design, It's engaging gameplay and brilliant story telling. the only thing i can actually nitpick at is the Camera when in fights which is why it gets a 9/10. Bloody love this game.


It's easily the best game so far this year. You can tell that it lacks a bit of refinement in a few minor areas but if makes up for it with stunning visuals and really fun gameplay that has a suprising amount of depth to it.
The most beautiful looking game I have ever played! Worth the $60 for the world they have created only. The story is engaging, but nothing too great. The combat is good, and very fun & interesting once you unlock many techniques. It's one of the best things about this game. Overall the game is a must-buy and another feather on the crown of Playstation 9/10


One of, if not the best, open world experiences I’ve ever had. Nothing mind blowing unique but it offers great improvements and subtle twists to the typical open world formula we’ve see from other open world games these days, and it does enough to feel new in a familiar genre and pulls it off very well. The story, setting, combat, the depth to the world and skills is a great combination for a game that you can sink many hours into, while can get repetitive I do feel it’s a good repetitive because the gameplay loop is satisfying, fun, and very enjoyable all while being in a world that feels open and very much alive which is satisfying compared to the other open world games from this gen that have felt empty and stale but Ghost of Tsushima excels in all areas of the open world genre having some of the best implementation in an open world game that I’ve played. If you love exploration, skillful combat, a samurai experience, and don’t mind another open world game to add to the list then this is on of the best games you will play. Last but not least, this game is the most beautiful game I have ever seen from the colors to the structure and all the different types of settings It has through out the island of Tsushima is amazing. I definitely recommend this game, it’s a very special way to end off the amazing generation of the PlayStation 4.
Хорошая игра в Японском сеттинге, где играешь за самурая, есть конечно свои недостатки, но не критичные. Игра доставила мне удовольствие. Также хочу отметить красивые виды в игре, которые всегда можно заскринить фоторежимом. Расчленёнки не хватает(я про обычный режим).


Really this game masterpiece you should buy it very good story amazing Graphic with open world also very good sidemission I love everything in this game great work

Genial puesta en Escena mapa muy grande y con mucho contenido recomendable 100%100
To say that this game is “just another assassin’s creed game” is outright blasphemous. Perhaps the only notable AC thing about this game are the stealth kills. Climbing mechanics feel more like Uncharted, world building a bit like Horizon Zero Dawn and the overall world presentation and exploration is like that of Breath of the Wild’s. All of which are great games so I literally have no issues with it whatsoever. It’s like the perfect culmination of everything that’s great about open world games. The best thing about this game is the combat. Jheezas, as soon as you sort of master the stance switches and the perfect parries, it really does make you feel like some invincible samurai who can easily storm through the gates of a castle town. Except for the fact that the game doesn’t fail to humble you in combat from time to time which helps remind you how essential it is to time your strikes as well as your quick fire tools at your disposal. A common complaint among critics is the repetitiveness of the side missions — so you’ll give the like’s of AC Odyssey and RDR2 a pass but not this one? C’mon now. I like the side missions in this game especially the tales ones. The special side missions are also great as the equipments/moves you acquire from them really do enhance the the gameplay. Don’t get me started with the Black Dye Merchant. Good gawd. Black armor with a red katana hilt anyone? Could not ask for more. But obviously that’s just a personal preference. Also, I like how I haven’t had to reference my map to unlock/start side missions for the most part as the method for unlocking said missions are organically done in the game — just explore and you’ll see what I mean! By the way, I love how there’s no camera lock during combat as it increases your need to focus and the overall sense of urgency. Duels are always fun but my only gripe is that the intros are always the same but hey, they are pretty intros anyway. The open world is jaw-droppingly gorgeous. Like there are some locations in this game which makes you wanna slow down your trusty horse companion just so you can bask in the glory of the view before you. I swear I spend too much time using the photo mode in this game. It’s just so well crafted, I mean what can I say? Writing haikus are super relaxing experiences. I’ll leave that for you to explore but those are my 2 cents. This game is a dream like honestly, what a time to be alive as a gamer who’s into samurai warriors and whatnot. BUY THE GAME!!!

Finished the game yesterday, everything about it is absolutely awesome!! The story although won't hit everyone but as a guy who recently watched Akira Kurosawa movies like Yojimbo, Seven samurai just before the game's release. This game was worth every penny that i was saving up for since the E3 hype a couple of years ago. This game has the most visually stunning and aesthetically pleasing graphics anyone could ask for. Story is divided into 3 acts all with carrying the weight are the characters brilliantly voiced by their corresponding voice actors. The world is brimming with content and wholesome stuff like Fox shrines, poem writing and aswell as satisfying combat which is sooo sooo good that ema single mistake can cost you a lot. Later on you will discover the power of making an effort to make most of the encounters a risk/reward situation for yourself. I recommend everyone giving this game a chance. It is GOTY for me and i have no regrets at all about pre ordering it a few days ago just before it's launch. Bravo Sucker Punch Productions! You ended the PS4's era with a banger!!


A technical marvel. The art direction is outstanding. Got is a game that costantly leaves you breathless for stunning graphics (one of the game with the best graphics around), animations and characters' pathos and personality , like old japanese samurai movies. The combat system is difficult to master at first but then returns incredible satisfaction with experience and improvements. One of the most cinematic games, much more than tlou2. To me one of the best game of this generation.
This game is wonderful. I’ve been waiting years for an Assassins Creed game set in feudal Japan, and now we have one of sorts. This would have got a 10 but the lack of enemy lock on knocks a point off.
El mejor juego de mundo abierto de la generación, junto con Zelda BOTW. Música, ambientación, combate, apartado artístico, todo está a un nivel increíble.
What a way to finish a generation of ps4 exclusives. It’s one of the most beautiful open world games I’ve ever played. The combat is just so badass and satisfying. The way the wind and the animals tell you where to go is just so smooth. Side quests are one of the best I’ve done because they actually make sense in the story. What a masterpiece suckerpunch, congrats

absolutely amazing game !, lovely, with such a amazing story, wide area, great fighting combat, and you can choose weather and music in game, which is amazing , Ghost of The Year !

Excelente mundo aberto convidativo a exploração, sistema de combate diferenciado, inovador e dasafiante, sistema de evolução do personagem variado e intuitivo! Fecha a geração de grandes exclusivos do PS4 com chave de ouro
The samurai game you never knew you needed, I loved nearly everything about this game, its graphics are beautiful and the combat is fun and engaging,the story isn't anything special but definitely not a let down, if you are a fan of open world games then this is a safe buy!

Incredible Game. Ghost of Tsushima does nothing new but thats not bad. It takes the best elements from Assassins Creed, BOTW, Witcher 3, and other games and puts them into feudal Japan. There are minor mistakes which makes this game a 9/10 and not a 10/10. The camera is a bit janky, Japanese Lip Sinc is off, Some side quests feel a bit generic but they still make sense in the world and the story is a bit slow. These Mistakes are easily Ignored when you look at the Incredible Highlights of this game. The Combat just feels awesome, One of the best in the Open World Genre. The Graphics are absolutely breathtaking, the Open World is great and Navigation with the wind is insane.
I have not finished the game and it's already a 10 out of 10 for me. I have played for 8 hours a day since it launched. I only stopped because I had to sleep and go to work. To truly enjoy this game you have to get lost in the world. The side quest are not ground breaking but they are very fun and the combat is excellent.




A very beautiful game with a very vast world to explore. I love it's game play mechanics and customisation options along with its great story line really make it an amazing game!
@SuckerPunchProd please, with all respect to you, fix the bugs and Artificial Intelligence of the enemies, and improve the textures of the game mainly the water. It's a game that has great potential to be a new franchise for us @PlayStation fans.
One of the best if not the best release on PS4 in a very long time ! Has few small bugs that most games do but so small that they don’t bother. Game play awesome! Story great and highly recommended !! Game of the year absolutely

Ghost of tsushima é um game muito bem trabalhado em termos de mundo aberto combate e cenário. cheio de missões muito boas, a história depende de cada pessoa se vai gostar não tem como dizer se é boa ou não mas eu gostei muito e o jogo tem muitas missões secundárias incríveis e te contam mais do mundo de tsushima
The game is absolutely beautiful, I'm giving it a 9 because it feels unpolished. The animations are clunky, the corpses of my enemies are just weightless and cannot be moved after they're on the ground and the physics aren't top notch all the time. It feels like they didn't want to take some time to perfect the little things and it really hurts the game for me. I hope it'll get improved a little in future updates!
Absolutely Beautiful game!! The combat is so much fun and it has a cool story! If you're on the fence about getting this game, GET IT!! It will really be worth it!!
First game in 2020 where I have spent 12 continuous hours playing with only food and bathroom breaks. The visuals and simply beautiful and characters are perfect, I love how the side stories are set up like episodes on a TV show. Exploration is rewarded in a big way, everything just feels worthwhile. I can't recommend this game enough to people, and is the perfect way to close off this generation. Thank you Sucker Punch for making another fantastic game.
Ghost of Tsushima - much like Red Dead Redemption 2 is a game that really shows love for the genre it portrays. No other game quite captures the feeling of feudal Japan as this. You play Jin - a Samurai who personally takes on the responsibility of liberating his homeland of Tsushima from the invading Mongol army. Throughout his journey, Jin is torn between sticking to the traditions he is taught as a Samurai and using more guerrilla - less honourable tactics like those of a Ninja. This is echoed by the skills and abilities you as a player can unlock as you progress, some favouring the Samurai and other favouring the Ninja. The fighting system is deep without being overly-complex, and hard hitting without feeling too punishing. It straddles the line between For Honor and Onimusha quite nicely, Jin is manoeuvrable without feeling too weighty or floaty, you're as nimble as you need to be without feeling like a light breeze will carry you away. As open-world games go, Ghost of Tsushima does an excellent job of making you want to explore its vast and beautiful landscapes - it wouldn't surprise me if Zhang Yimou's 2002 film "Hero" didn't play a major influence. At times I found myself stopping and appreciating the stunning art direction, you won't go very long without snapping some images using the in-game photo mode. Even if the story isn't your thing, there is plenty of hours of enjoyment to be had exploring the beautiful world, liberating towns, sneaking into fortresses and clashing swords.
I absolutely love this game. The attention to details, the amount of sidequests, the environment are all top notch. The game takes about 4 hours to really hit its stride.
One of the best games of the open world, especially from the diversity of nature and side missions and their stories in addition to a powerful fighting system and the wonderful photo mode, had it not been for some technical errors in the movement of the face and language and the succession of night and day are not a big thing، would have been one of the best exclusives






Graphic:9: Quite beautiful graphic presentation with Japan samurai Artistic and middle age landscapes Gameplay: 8 quite decent combat system,wide map scale and suits collection elements but no any surprise story :7 quite conventional story about revenge and resisting invasion,but I very appreciative for Kurosawa akira film representation
{10 or so hours in...] The camera and combat is a bit odd, but you get accustomed to it. Aside from this, everything in the game is pretty incredible. It's a sizable map (huge!), good NPC interation, great quest line etc. The story is very good, but nothing new in this regard. The AI could't be any better, it's literally perfect! I highly recommend this game, it looks incredible, the graphics are great. My only headbender is the camera and combat, but again, you get used to it. I *highly* recommend this game, it's an instant classic!
One of the most beautiful games I played ever, a truly open world like Breath of the wild, were you want to talk to people to discover new locations, or get lost in the island.
Juego absolutamente increible. Impresionante lo que ha hecho SP, y desde mi punto de vista ninguneado por parte de la prensa(al menos española). Se siente fresco, ambientacion increible, combate gratificante, y buena exploracion. La historia(llevo 20 horas) me esta gustando, con buenos personajes, misiones divertidas e interesante. Gran final de generacion para sony. Una de las sorpresas del año, y de la generacion.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best, if not the best, open world game of all time. The scenarios are breathtaking and beautiful and the gameplay is smooth and user friendly. For me is the top contender for Game of the Year 2020. Thank you Sucker Punch for this marvelous game.


Just amazing, this game details, graphics, history , everything I see, moments playing this game is incredible, I remember the first time playing Zelda Breath of the Wild
Насыщенный и огромный открытый мир,очень крутая боевая система,спасибо за игру!!!

Tipica esclusiva Sony open world, divertente il combattimento bellissima atmosfera e ricco di attività da svolgere. Peccato siano tutte molto simili tra loro da svolgere, lavorando più sulla varietà di cose da fare potrà diventare un capolavoro.
I rarely write reviews but this game is truly surprising maybe not the best of this generation but the gameplay is VERY fun, swordsmanship feels natural and slick and you really feel like a deadly ninja. Maybe is not the most original game but everything is top notch the jaw dropping graphics, the incredible music score and sound design, the quest design, the world that feels alive and vibrant along with subtle little touch like secrets related to Japanese folklore and some moments that are almost moving and poetic. GOT is a beautiful game and worth every of your penny I didn’t have so much fun with a game since the Witcher 3, highly advised!
Jogo bom, incrível como conseguiram expor a cultura japonesa através de um jogo e acertaram em cheio, 10/10 para mim, os críticos estão sendo injustos , uma vez que um jogo como teu last of us 2 tem 95/100, e esse só tem 83, não sei como.
There is definitely something wrong with SONY as they put tons of money in advertisement average quality projects with pretty much no proper story line and keep silence about the PS EXCLUSIVE that has it all! And when I'm saying that the game has it all, there is no any exaggeration or something. I'm hundred percent sure that the game is a pure gem for the Japan culture lovers! I'm not one of those crazy about Samurais and Ninjas but the point is that the game looks so good I was super interested to put my hands on anyway! As I said already the game is beautiful and speaking of beautiful it looks amazing! All the colors are like the magical music converted into visual form for your eyes! The game has a great atmosphere that makes you dive into the game and easily tell yourself "I believe it!". Small villages, distant buildings in the mind-blowing areas, natural looking flora, tons of moving tiny elements such as stylish flying leaves around you, animals, all those elements make the game world super relaxing but definitely not dead. You clearly feel that the world is alive and believable. The game has a simple but great story line, great characters including what I would call really strong female character and not those artificial ones as we can see in these days modern products full of weird messages. The game has great combat system! Not over-complicated but enough diverse to be perfect for average gamer. Overall we have a great product for everyone to enjoy that should get a strong 7 or even 8 out of 10 but with what is going on in the game critics community I'll give it 9 out of 10 as the game is much better than the most of the high rated games out there according to professional critics!
Un Buen juego gran forma de adentrarse en la cultura antigua japonesa en especial la de los sumarais, personajes carismáticos con una gran personalidad, buen apartado gráfico y un gameplay interesante y entretenido, Se observan algunos errores ( posiblemente por no disponer de suficientes recursos económicos) por eso para mi no le puedo poner el 10 pero en general es un gran juego interesante y entretenido. Mezcla entre los primeros Assasins, Sekiro e incluso Zelda BoW
Игра выше среднего,очень крутой самурайский экшен,часиков на 40 -55,открытые мир интересно исследовать,основная миссия интересная но не то-что бы прям а,я уже нечил второй акт ,думаю к третьему устану уже.но есть настолько кросивые места просто атас,вывод сетинг очень тянет.
If you're looking for a game solely based on the fun of its combat, a great deep beautiful world to explore, and a simple but put together story - this game is for you.
One of the best Samurai immersions that has ever risen in the video game field. The graphical beauty of the open world, it's revolutionary gameplay mechanics, the intriguing storyline and characters, amazing in every single way. Some downsides are the few glitches one can find. Worth the purchase for every play station samurai fan.
I really enjoyed playing this game. It has a great story, a great open world filled with beautiful places to explore. The Gameplay fits the game perfectly, it makes you actually feel like a samurai. All in all a really good game and i can not understand the 83 score.
the best game in 2020 so far.. game of the year? maybe we should wait for cyberpunk 2077.. gbost of tsushima is a strong contender for the game of the year imo... but please optimize the game for base ps4.. its a bit laggy but still playable

Ghost of Tsushima is one of the most beautiful and immersive games I’ve ever played, with engaging combat and objectives. Favourite part of this game is the mythic tales objectives that get you more involved with the environment around you and build upon the island of Tsushima. My new most favourite game!

Overall the game is really good, the graphics, story, mechanics, attention to detail and gameplay is some of the best I’ve ever played. There is so much to do on this game away from the main story and I couldn’t not Ben happier with that. There is also no waypoints in the game which is awesome you just let the wind guide you to the destination. The developers made good use of the touch pad which we haven’t seen much of with the PS4 and I congratulate them for their creativity. At times the combat was kinda clunky but nothing really it flowed really well. Sometimes in enemy bases it was unclear where to go and the little wind icon would’ve been very handy to help navigate your way around. I’m keeping this short as there isn’t really anything bad to say. The game looks amazing and is amazing from start to finish, it’s kind of like a modern day Skyrim but in its own way. Overall really good I enjoyed every second and would recommend to anyone. 9.5/10 -Brett
It’s good B) I don’t think there will be a release this year as finished, as polished, and as satisfying as this one. Genuinely a must play. Samurais are cool
After playing it I can say this game is my favourite game ever. Everything about it Is good but some parts are a bit clunky but I think they can fix it


This is my first Samurai game and I absolutely love it! The story is engaging, the characters are endearing and the gameplay experience is enthralling. My favorite part is the unofficial boss fights. I get killed at least 10 times before I finally beat them, but it is so satisfying. As no piece of art is perfect, GoT has a downside and that is the camera during combat sequences. Kudos to Sucker Punch and the team that created this masterpiece.
Ghost of Tsushima é incrível, uma ambientação fenomenal que vai desde a direção artística a sonosplatia, ambas excelente. O combate do jogo é muito fluido e dinâmico, e a abordagem com fantasma é ótimo também.. Os duelos e o combate com espadas é um dos pontos altos do jogo. A exploração e o sentimento de descobertas, além dos contos fazem a imersão no jogo ainda maior. Há alguns problemas, a IA inimiga quando se joga como fantasma não é das melhores, mas cumpre seu papel. Algumas texturas ou caixa de colisão as vezes buga, mas devem ser corrigido futuramente e não afetam muito a experiência.
Great game with amazing graphics and story..every 5 minutes you will want to take a screenshot....nice battle system..I dont know why people dont like to much the stealth system..i didnt had any issue with stealth..the characters and the story is great to.
This is one of the best open world games I have ever played. The world is beautiful and full of things to do, the amount of photos I took with the photo mode is insane. The worlds beauty is not the only thing that is spectacular about this game, the story is also amazing. I can see why some people may not like the story but I find it beautiful and touching and is a rollercoaster of emotions all the way till the very end. The combat in this game is the best sword play I’ve seen in a open world game, it’s so fluid and makes you feel epic while at the same time not being too easy, I’ve died multiple times and i played on normal difficulty. The game is not easy but it’s not dark souls or sekiro level hard. I highly recommend this game to anyone who likes open world games or just anyone in general who likes video games, this is an epic journey that I was happy to go through. There are some minor things that bug me like the absence of a lock-on feature as sometimes in combat this can be a issue and there are some bugs and glitches I encountered but they were less than 10 in a 20+ hour story.
Although slow in the beginning, Ghost of Tsushima builds itself up us the most stunning open world game ever created. Tsushima is beyond breathtaking, beautiful and worthwhile at every corner. The atmosphere is handled extremely well, which is complimented by probably the best sound design I have ever heard, the player being sucked into sucker punch's creation. Every sword strike feels power- and meaningful, being accompanied by dramatic hits, drums, flutes and singing. The titlecard gives me shivers everytime and is one of the most powerful gaming intro's I've ever experienced. The combat starts off easy and boringly simple, slowly adding up while one's own skill grows until you eventually become... The 'Ghost of Tsushima' There's just NOTHING more satisfying than mongols laughing at a stand-off before you slaughter each of their friends in one quick slice, the others throwing their weapons away and cowering on the ground. Now that I'm done sucking the game and sucker (haha) punch studios off, let's get into some of the negatives: The story is rather bland. 'Servicable' is the height it reached for me. This meaning it motivated and kept me intrigued. However, the real strength of this game comes from combat, exploration and even sidestories (which sometimes are surprisingly deep and fleshed out). Characters are fine and well written. Not much (overall) blew me away but I never felt unsatisfied. That being said, there are some shining moments like surprising + negative situations, that are actually well made (watch and learn, "new dogs"). Minor, but still something I picked up on: Some of the animations are clunky while other's are beyond admirable. Things sometimes 'just happen' at a button press, without much of a transition between stances or weapon types. I suppose 'The last of us Part 2' really spoiled me in that regard. Strong 8 to a light 9 for me.

One of the best open world games I've played since the Witcher 3. Oozes style, grace and beauty, fighting mechanics are easily the most thought out structure in the game with multiple stances, play styles and weapons to choose from.. exploration is absolutely breathtaking, how the environment was crafted and seamlessly put together is a gaming achievement. I cant stress how good this game is.

Great game Camera = only min point them need to patch a bit ( somtimes = not a good camera angle ) Also make you own amunition + explosives = some idee. I do not need journalist ore publishers to tel me what good to me ore what not good in a game . Them are destroying films - games whith what them tink = richt .


What an amazing game! It like nioh but in open world, huge world with tons of interesting stories, perfect fight system, challenging, tons of fight items and options, am not fan of open world games, but still this game made me addicted , ull feel like u living in samurai era. Tahnks Sucker Punch for this masterpiece

Uma Obra de Arte, é o game mais divertido que já joguei, além da história valorosa, o game passa uma sensação de paz e tranquilidade, uma harmonia perfeita entre o combate e a calmaria, os cenários e o contexto fazem o jogador imergir na obra de maneira singela e sem pressão apesar da situação de guerra, ao mesmo tempo que não deixa o desafio de lado, e isso foi algo que eu jamais tinha sentido

This game is masterful. The detail put into the game is extraordinary, you can tell the developers have poured their heart and soul into the game and their focus was on making a great game. Everything from the characters, graphics, story, exploration, COMBAT (soooo good and satisfying) are all top notch. I can only take away a point for the the graphics which are 9/10. The two games that easily off the top of my head with 10/10 graphics are Death Stranding and The Last of Us 2. Everything else in this game is perfection. It's so tough but this game right now has knocked off FF& remake for my game of the year. This is one you really have to just play and experience. Sucker Punch has outdone themselves and risen to the ranks of a top developer for me. Its one of those games that gets better with each session and is hard to want to put down.

This game is absolutely stunning. Sometimes I find myself just sitting and admiring the view. The story is also very good. The upgrades and fighting mechanics are on point.
This game is a work of art, probably the most visually impressive ps4 game of all time bar red dead 2. The combat system ranges from simple arkham city style to more complicated dependant on your difficulty settings. It's a very different setting for a game and is very much samurai porn after watching some Kurosawa movies like yojimbo. Music and sound is incredible
Sucker Punch really knocked it out of the park with this. The world just feels so vibrant and alive, along with how beautiful Tsushima is, it doesn’t feel like a chore going from question mark to question mark The gaming world was not prepared for Ghost of Tsushima from Sucker Punch. They wanted it, they dreamt of it, but they did not know what it was, or what form it would come in the shape of. It would arrive on the 17th July, 2020 and it was in the shape of Jin Sakai. For me, an eternity of let downs and disappointments now over. Furthermore, the search is over! my gaming journey is done. You could say i'm retired from searching. I will always be the first to admit, i am not the best gamer in the world. I am a dreamer. i take on a game and i make it my own and let it work for me. Many a time i have given up on a game, because the faults were too much to turn a blind eye to. Yet, at the age of 41, married with my first born child merely a few weeks old and a myriad of life issues, bills and problems facing me...i find myself waking in the early hours to get back to the island of Tsushima. Sure, there's faults. But, i have a big imagination. Let's take a discussion i read about no hit-detection on bamboo trees. It doesn't matter, because if i didn't read that, i wouldn't know. i was already walking around them. i was already making my own movie heaven. I'm Jubai Kipigami fighting the blind swordsman in the bamboo forest, i'm Kôji Yakusho preparing to take on an entire village of enemies, i'm Tatsuya Nakadai walking through the cemetery for a momentous duel. For that matter, the tension in the air at a duel is something else. My straw hat, jossling in the wind. My longbow sways and flutters as gusts of wind pass by. The pampas grass rasps across the hills beyond me. The world constantly moves as Samurai and Mongol remain still, waiting for the first move. Blink and you would miss it, amongst the cacophony of vision and sound. The moment is here, you are in that Kurusawa movie, take it all in as a torrent of blood swathes across the screen and spatters the ground at my feet. Would you believe i have only been playing for 2 days? This game is the ultimate Samurai open-world game and it has blown other open-worlds out of the water. Not only have Sucker Punch written a love letter to Japan, they have written a love letter to Playstation and it's gamers. tldr: Buy it, 10/10.
In it for just a few hours, loving the atmosphere and feel of the world, simple open world mechanics yet wast and luscious looking world, with very different places around the map. Game takes a little getting used to but after that its nice and smooth sailing. Cant get enough of the atmosphere it creates, especially with Kurosawa mode.


Despite shortcomings with stealth and the camera, Ghost of Tsushima is a tremendous game. 20+ hours of a good story along with great gameplay and a beautifal open world set in feudal Japan. Definitely buy this if you're a PS4 owner.

Honestly had so much fun playing this game. I love the combat and open world aspect of it. The story is also pretty good, and the voice acting was on point. Overall would highly recommend for anyone who is weeb.
I was waiting for a good open world game since Zelda: Breath of The Wild, and there it is!! Ghost of Tsushima is beautiful, fun to play, and have epic samurai combats. I'm a huge fan of Japanese culture, and I have to say, this game really bring it to life. The interactions with the NPCs, the exploration, which is a completionist gamer dream come true, the graphics, the art style... this game is everything a real gamer want after the fiasco of TLOU2. Congratulation to sucker punch and everyone involved in the development of this game.


Shoe in fornthe game of the year. After finishing 2 acts and completing every single side mission and location up to this point, it is clear that if you need a game to simply escape and forget time passing this is your game. The controls are very easy to manage although bow shooting is slightly difficult. Playing on the hardest difficulty doe not seem to affect overall gameplay. The graphics and soundtrack are a shoe in for awards. The storyline gives you a great sense of nationalism while the story follows historical events and gives accueate data. I have had so much fun playing this game so dar and cannot wait to keep playing.
Aspettavo da tempo un gioco così... così pieno di Giappone, open-world e caratteristico! Mille applausi a SP per il lavoro, comprerei altre mille volte il gioco...mi sta trasmettendo sensazioni uniche e stupende ad ogni quest o esplorazione che intraprendo!



The game feels very raw. The fighting is good and the nature is beautiful, however all the rest aspects seem very cheap and unfinished. Especially it feels so after playing the Last of Us 2 and RDR 2. The mystery about this game is why it took 6 years to make it. However I very appreciate the fact the game doesn't contain any SJW ideas.
Excelente juego. Las texturas no son las mejores, pero el juego lo compensa con creces en cuanto al diseño del mapa, sus colores, las partículas en pantalla, y la enorme inmersión que esto genera con la época feudal. El sonido tampoco está nada mal, de hecho tiene algunas canciones que son increíbles. El contenido secundario recompensa bien, y mucho del mismo tiene carga argumental que lo vuelve más entretenido de realizar. Tiene algunos fallos de IA enemiga, pero no afectan negativamente a la experiencia salvo algunos casos donde el juego se torna más sencillo debido a lo mencionado. Se hecha en falta una dificultad mayor a Difícil, pero en Difícil los combates igualmente son muy entretenidos. Las animaciones son muy buenas, con algún que otro fallo donde por ejemplo la espada del enemigo al atacarnos y nosotros bloquear, no realiza contacto con nuestra espada pero aún así bloqueamos y salen chispas por el golpe entre los metales. Pequeños detalles a los que hay que prestarle bastante atención para notarlos. Los que dicen que dura 30 horas es porque rushearon la historia sin jugar el contenido secundario. Me tomó 30 horas completar al completo el primero de los 3 "mapas" que tiene, y de paso explico... El mapa del juego es 1, que está dividido en 3 partes. El mapa es la isla de Tsushima, dividida en Norte, Centro, y Sur. (Cada uno es un mapa mundo abierto donde hay mucho contenido para realizar). Recuerdo haber leído en la "prensa especializada de videojuegos" (especializada en mentir y hablar bobadas, como siempre), que no se podía "cortar bambú". Si que se puede, hay minijuegos que aumentan tu estadística de "determinación", donde justamente tienes que cortar bambues con tu katana realizando pequeños quick time events. En overall, es uno de los mejores juegos (sino el mejor) que ha hecho Sucker Punch Productions.
Increíble! Llevo 8 horas de juego y puedo decir que el juego es fantastico, sinceramente no entiendo a las reseñas de algunos "expertos"; pero bueno, juegazo para cerrar con broche de oro la generación.
No spoilers here... This game is amazing so far! I'm not a huge fan of cutscenes and PlayStation storytelling(waste of money IMO). The focus is always the gameplay for me. Once you get past the boring intro movie (over an hour) the game actually starts. And man, the exploration is amazing. It actually makes you want to explore(a lot like botw). I'm a big dark souls, bloodborne, and Sekiro fan. Have beaten them all on new game plus. But this game on normal is harder to me for some reason. I kept dying to normal enemies. Had to dial it down to easy. Plobably because dodging mechanic is weird and somewhat broken in this game. I love the atmosphere, the quests, and sense of wonder. This game is way better than red dead redemption 2, that is for sure. That game just put me to sleep.


Ghost of tsushima is amazing A beautiful game with a beautiful world to explore. is amazing This game is gorgeous, simply gorgeous But there are some unfortunate parts The Story ist very intense. There is no small map, and the annoyance of finding various objects with weak vibration It was difficult to find enemies or flags to remove in the sub-quest, But it’s really fun to play I hope it gets better in the sequel
Amazing game! Love the fighting system. Good story. The game is a must play for folks who are looking for an open world game. The combat system is excellent.
I am about 15 hours into the game and it is already Game of the Year for me. Exploration is rewarding in a way I have never seen since Breath of the Wild. Combat is fluid and smooth and load times are most minimal I have ever seen in an PS4 Exclusive. I can actually fast travel in this game and it means fast. I am in love with this game and anyone who speaks against it is my enemy.
i want to keep this spoiler free for people , this game has been a truly awesome journey for me and may be the best open world game i have ever played from the great graphics and sound design to the atmosphere to the world design it has been the most immersive open world game i have ever played, and the combat hits soo home to me it's a great mix between the quick and short "bat man" style combat to the reflexes heavy sekiro/nioh combat, the story has it's moments and it's a beautiful nod to the samurai films i love growing up all in all this game is one of the best games you can play in 2020

This is an amzing game,the best in genre. Better than assassins creed. Amazing veiw from japan and pefect voice actor. Jins voic actor is same as roronoa zoro from one piece

Ghost of Tsushima is very fun! for a serious game. You’re a samurai fighting amongst a fleet of Mongols invading 1274 Japan. THE GAMEPLAY - 9/10 let’s talk combat: there are four stances you will learn throughout the game which makes combat gameplay feel different each time, which is great. There is a skill tree where you can upgrade your samurai or ghost. This doesn’t mean that you have to play one version of Jin at a time, you can play stealth and go loud at the same time. You can use Ghost abilities and strike with samurai katana, these both can be used fluidly during combat. Once you learn stances you can change it during a fight which can pertain to certain Mongols, shielded, Big, or speared. Learning to time parry and dodges is hard at first but as you learn to do so it becomes very rewarding in terms of fun gameplay leading to exciting battles. Graphics: 9/10 beautiful color palette. Realistic or believeable enough and appropriate for the time. The vegetation is complimentary to the world of Tsushima, Japan. It is so visually compelling and easy on the eyes. I walked more time around the open world than riding horseback. Music: 10/10 all the music is traditionally set and appropriate for each scene. It gets so intense because of the sounds. When you do fight a boss the music starts and it immerses you into a Japanese movie fight scene. Every time music starts a brings a sense of joy and smile to face. Exploration/side missions: Every side quest or mini event has a reward at the end. Either it being a charm for Katana to new armor sets. Every quest has substance to them. Sometimes a fox, golden bird will lead you to unfounded treasure and or resources for upgrading. Negatives: - There are short fade to black transitions during cutscenes. - mouthing words is a little delayed because of multiple languages dubbed in options to select - The body movement of main characters and other npcs are a little unrealistic, such as when You jump as Jin his vertical jump is as high a NFL player’s. -the Mongols are slow to spot you when doing stealth, which makes it easy and less believe able. The game is spectacular despite the negatives/flaws. I highly recommend buying this game and experience being a fully fledged badass samurai.
Amazing game, I so lucky to have this and currently still playing it. Superb Graphics and visual art direction, both day and night looks breathtaking. Combat is satisfying and requires skill the further you go. Great amount of enemy variants, and you can enter a battle with many tactical/strategic ways. Many unlockables such as weapon cosmetics and armors.
amazing good good good good good good good good good good good good good good

I like everything about it, even no target lock at first looked like a hassle but now I don't need it anymore, it's good the way it is. This game is everything I wanted for Samurai game: great combat, beautiful open world, and good storytelling.

Игра на 7-ку не больше не меньше, очень красивая игра со скучным геймплеем, открытый мир пустой, делать там практически нечего, бегать за лисами вам надоест сразу говорю, для любителей эстетики японии подойдёт. ещё раз напомню что игра оооочень красивая!

So, I'm about 20 hours into the game, but most of that has been focused on doing side content so I've only just started Act 2. The game is so amazing, that I'll just list the criticisms I have, though they deal with world traversal and assassinations. Written in the hope a dev reads this. Sometimes the registering of ladders is so damn small that you spend 10 seconds trying to climb a ladder and you keep moving past the base. Another thing is when you're doing the platforming over obstacles getting to a major shrine, you don't automatically step onto a bridge or off it, leaving you to use the jump button, but then almost having a heart attack when you just leap forward and off the cliff. The game doesn't let you just stepping off a small ledge or bamboo bridge, leaving you just tilting the stick but hanging there in game, not moving. So would be nice to make that automatic and fluid. With fighting, make the Assasinate and Chain Assassinate buttons the same button. No reason to just assassinate one in a group. And have the Assassinate option proximity based, not visually based, so if the camera does an oppsie and the prompt goes off screen a fraction before you press Square or Triangle to assassinate, making your character break stealth and attack normally. And sometimes enemies register you from outside their field of vision, though that could just be the enemy turning his head back and forth to cover more ground. But sometimes it felt like they knew I was approaching them from almost behind them. However, these annoyances don't detract much from just how amazing this game is. The atmospheric and world graphics are just beyond anything I've seen so far, with only RDR2 coming close. The voice acting is great. Most characters are amazing and while I can understand some people thinking the main character is flat, there is a narrative reason for it and I would implore anyone reading this review to keep that in mind, making his hints of emotion gratifying to see. At the end of the day, I would give this game a score of 9.5, as my problems only about to a .5 detractor. But this website won't let me do that, so it's a 9 for me. To me, this is the true send off Sony Exclusive for the PS4. I am ready for the new generation.
Belos gráficos, ferramenta incrivel para fotos, otima diversao, gameplay com elementos interessantes e imersivos, alguns bugs(camera, personagens), trilha sonora e efeitos musicas bons, um ambiente amplo e as muitas vezes desafiador, conquistas de territorios vencer sobre lideres, alem de ser um jogo que é rejogavel, isso tem sido um grande diferencial pra mim o jogo ser rejogavel. Em alguns momentos me lembrou skyrim, rdr2, rdr1, assassins creed, tenchu 2, entre outros games, estou gostando, recomendo.
One of the best games at the end of the PS4 console. The open world has always been one of my favorite game types. This game has not disappointed me, with excellent game images and stories.
Any review lower than an 8 is suspicious, to be honest. Ghost of Tsushima is a phenomenal game. The visuals in this game feel nearly next gen. Even after 25+ hours, I still find myself repeatedly stopping to admire the beauty of the open world. The combat is methodical, brutal and satisfying. The story is actually really good, absolutely worth following. Loading times are exceptional. There are some moments of light open world jank, like not being able to climb on certain rocks or sliding down them. But those moments are completely forgotten as this game is bewitching you with its mesmerizing scenery and fun, engaging, bloody combat. The stealth isnt anything revolutionary, but it's done well enough and it's fun using your tools. Some of the little things in this game are wonderful like how they made use of the touchpad and how certain things affect the weather. The level of armor and weapon customization is fantastic, including being able to make a focused build to suit your playstyle. For me its only not a 10 because of some repeated mission formats and as far as i know, there isnt a NG+. Other than that, the game is absolutely incredible. Thank you Sucker Punch!
So I bought this game with no clue what to find. But I think I stumbled on a gem. The music is great especially Jin’s tune, the graphics is on par with the best I’ve seen so far and the story is so good that I’ve already started a new campaign to play the tales of Tsushima. But the best thing I loved in it was the photo mode, I think I used a lot of time on it just looking at how many customizations I could use. The showdown option. The fox charms. The wind. Oh so many things I liked. I mean I always wanted to pet a fox and this game delivered. I’ve always wanted a Good feudal Japan game story, I almost got that in Sekiro if it wasn’t for the magic. This was what I needed. I got goosebumps at every turn. Does it have bugs? I didn’t come across any but my friend said he got some bugs. He also said that it didn’t ruin the experience for him. I had few problem with the stealth as ghost but that was before I got a hang of the game.I won’t talk any spoilers but if you like a well balanced game with beautiful sceneries and a top notch story, look no further than the ghost of Tsushima.
É um jogo legal. Openworld padrão , gameplay básica mas muito divertida, os gráficos estao abaixo do que foi mostrado nas apresentações do jogo, mas ainda assim o jogo está lindo , muito graças a direção artística do game. Boa representação da cultura japonesa, embora haja erros na dublagem deste idioma. Enfim, bom jogo, abaixo do esperado, muito abaixo de TlOU2, mas, ainda assim um bom jogo
A true masterpiece of gaming! Simy the best visuals and performance of any console game! A beautiful atmosphere that does justice to the theme and era of the games setting. Combat is the highlight though, very satisfying, with enough of a challenge to keep you engages but not frustrate. Leveling and progression done amazing too. Side activities a little generic but fit the atmosphere so well they are relaxing and enjoyable anyway. Side quests more interesting telling you more about main characters and giving good rewards. I simply cannot praise this game enough.
Sucker Punch has made an AMAZING game. It is not only the most beautiful game the PS4 has ever seen, but this game embodies Samurai/Ninja Japanese cinema in a video game. The story will make you feel like you are the main character in those classic tales, and the gameplay is as gratifying as the world's sights and skies will take your breath away every 5 minutes. THIS is how you make a great game, Naughty Dog. No misery porn or bad narrative here. Games should be fun even when the material goes to dark places, and not just nonsense to surprise the player for cheap shock value. The difference here is you will revel in playing Jin Sakai and feel great after each game session.
we’ve waited years for a game like this!! a perfect japanese samurai game , nothing else to say really , amazing graphics , amazing story , amazing combat and most importantly amazing characters , well done sucker punch!
It's not perfect obvious, cause there are no perfect game in this world. But it is Fun to play. Great Story, Great Design, you can feel the passion that Sucker Punch put in this game.
Gioco molto bello con un cobat sistema facile ma efficende, per ora uniche cose da migliorare sono la IA e l'emotività dei personaggi nei filmati; e magari aggiungere nuovi tipi di missioni secondarie
If you love exploration and wandering around a stunning and beautifully detailed big world, then this game is 100% for you. It takes inspiration from games like Assassin's Creed and Horizon's Zero Dawn. It's not like Sekiro, Nioh and Dark Souls. If you thought it was, then this game is not for you. It does have its issues with animations, stealth and combat sometimes, but overall it's pretty solid. Notice that the combat gets better gradually, you may feel it's unsatisfying or basic initially, but it's intentional. A good fun game, unlike TLOU2. If you love games like Assassin's Creed, Horizon's Zero Dawn and The Witcher 3, there is a good chance you'll love this. Photo mode is amazing!
The scenery is stunning and so serene sometimes I find myself just watching the area around me, loving the combat system its not smooth but it does have a flow for the game, and so far the story isn't stale and I am enjoying the side quests as well. So far my one con is that somethings are explained or have a vague explanation
Don't play Ghost of Tsushima as a stealth game... It's just too generic af. The game is much more "rewarding" if you treat conflict as a Ronin/Samurai/Shogun. Honor the blade... honor the enemy
Generation defining visuals with great combat somewhat hampered by occasional clunky camera controls. Story is okay. Definitely recommend diving into a world that is incredibly fun to simply explore.
Incredible game. Actually deserves a high score, as opposed to the propaganda mess that was The Last of Us 2. TLOU2 was absolute trash, and was propped up by bots and liberals.
Beautiful world, excellent combat and an incredible level of immersion for anyone invested in the samurai cinema genre. Yes, the story is straight-forward and mediocre and yes stealth is lame. But this is a fantastic game.

GOT is a great game to get lost in, beautiful environments, great story and memorable characters. The combat as a samurai is awesome and makes you feel like a badass. 10/10 try this game out.
With classic Sucker Punch story telling and hard twists in the story, I truly believe this story was something I could understand and sympathize for. While the stealth is not great, the combat was truly one of the best things the game has to offer. The mix between God of War, Sekiro and Assassin’s Creed was truly an outstanding pick. This is enhanced by the beautiful colors and scenery the game is constantly reminding you of. This game will be one of my favorites for awhile, and I appreciate Sucker Punch for taking the time and dedication to create something so amazing.

Increible lo que ha logrado sucker punch. Un sistema de combate completo y desafiante con toques muy parecidos al sekiro. Unos paisajes hermosos hasta ahora nunca vistos en esta generación. Una historia mas que decente para tratarse de un mundo abierto, con pequeñas historias repartidas mas que interesantes
This is an excellent game. I wish it would have released about a month earlier. The whole island, atmosphere, and vibe of the game is very good. Its not much I can say about the game in words, it's something you have to experience hands on. Its easily in my top 5 PS4 games.
La trama y el estilo de combate es muy bueno. Podría ser el mejor mecanismo de combate en tercera persona que haya visto actualmente. Los escenarios se abordan muy a la época en la que transcurre la historia.
This game is so good and the story so impactfull for us especially the protagonist dillema to save tsushima with the code of samurai or he needs to become a dishonorable ghost that loved by the people and hated by the shogun empire . Overall instant nine out of 10 for me

An amazing visual and audible experience guided through rich storytelling and character development in an incredible scenario. The only drawback is the camera during combat, otherwise this would be a 9.5.

Visually stunning, combat became easy early but never boring, just the right size for an open world, loads of fun, Well done Sucker Punch, may need to see what else they have made!
Great level design, fun combat and absolutely beautiful artwork. In terms of gameplay, there isn’t anything really “new” - this game is rather a mixture of Ubi Soft open worlds, Far Cry, Zelda BOTW, and From, Soul-like games (only in the hard mode). It is a good mixture though. I’ve found some historical inaccuracies, but who cares - it’s a game.
O jogo é belo, tem uma história incrível, um combate que te dá uma absurda liberdade e um mundo aberto cheio de exploração. Uma coisa que me incomodou, foi a quantidade de bugs absurda que o jogo tem, ao que parece, já estão sendo consertados.

Stunning visuals, beautiful atmosphere and a compelling story about the conflict of tradition versus efficiency. Combat is some of the best I've ever experienced. 9/10.
I had high expectations and for a brief moment, I thought that the game will disappointment me because the begining with the tutorial feels very tedious. However, after you get trough that and the game opens up, you'll truly see the magic behind this game. The visual style of this game is incredible. The colors are so vibrant that your expensive OLED TV will cry tears of joy. With RDR2, Horizon and Witcher 3, this has to be one of the prettiest, if not the prettiest open worlds right now. There is a huge immersion factor because there is basically no HUD on the screen and the wind is your compass. It also adds a lot visually because if the wind kicks in, there are particles all over the screen. Its clear that the devs learned from Breath of the Wild. The combat takes some time to get used to, especially since there is no lock on function but if you get the hang of it, it really feels satisfying. Cutting trough your enemies while blood covers your armor, then cleaning your sword and bow before your dead enemies... you truly feel like a samurai. Quests and characters may not feel like other over top SONY productions but surprsingly the side quests are really interesting. Also there are some really nice side activities but dont worry, the map is not full with question markers. There are some minor bugs especially with the enemy AI where NPCs are stuck on the stairs or run in circles but they are rare and wil be probably fixed with the next patch. For me this game feels like some sort of meditation. Everything is so beautiful and calm. This is one of those games where I constantly keep switching into photo mode and my god, this is the best photo mode in any game (and Spiderman already had a good one). The photo mode switches from gameplay into settings without any waiting and offers you so much! Time of day, weather conditions, wind settings, particle settings. If you wanna see what this mode is capable of, check out the screenshots on Twitter! I love it! The PS4 era slowly comes to an end and this game truly does justice to an amazing console. Its over, there wont be any big exclusives anymore and the console can finally rest after so many amazing years and games. Hats off to SONY! PS: One thing worth mentioning are the VERY short loading times. Like really, how did they do that? Also my PRO is surprisingly quiet when playing this game. Well done Sucker Punch!
tiene unas vistas muy buenas y no tiene cajas de botin ni dlc algo muy buen lo unico malo es que la inteligensia artificial y alguna que otra testura pero igual es muy disfrutable el juego
I have play over 20 hours for this game. I just can't stop playing it. The graphic is stunning! Every screen-shot is like a picture. It is a beautiful open world to explore, the side quest is interesting, and they did not force you to do the side quest by forcing you to upgrade the level of you character (Like Assassin creed). It is up to you if you want to play those side quest. The atmosphere of the sword duel is outstanding. The game play is interesting. The starting one-on-one combat is cool, and the combat is not very difficult (unlike Sekiro). Using proper form against different enemy, and properly applying counter attack will make you game much more easier. Finding the proper timing of counter attack is one of the most interesting part of this game. Regarding the Story. I haven't finish yet. But this is not a story based/motivated game. So I don't thinks it will has a big influence on the player's enjoyment on the game. But if there something really really bad on the story or story telling, like TLOU 2, which is purposefully making player miserable, I may come back and change my score.
Rarely do i buy games full priced $60 any more since there on sale after a couple of months anyway. iv had many regrets but Ghost of Tsushima was worth every penny, its a masterpiece! This is without a doubt the most beautiful game ever made, the HDR pops magnificently on my oled tv. Between moments of chaos during exhilarating battles and the satisfaction of upgrading and customizing weapon and armour (nothing cut out and locked behind a microtransaction paywall) are moments of complete serenity. The combat is incredibly fun,addicting and empowering. The game has held my attention all day every day since i bought it far exceeding by expectations. The developer suckerpunch has gone above and beyond when creating this and it shows in every inch of this game. This game is a love letter to samurai cinema, japanese culture and philosophy. It will be remembered along with the greatest games of all time. A must experience game for any gamer. I love this game, thank you SuckerPunch i finally got to play the samurai game from my dreams.

Ghost of Tsushima is addictingly fun. Every time I boot up the game, the world sucks me in, and I inhabit a samurai's mind. The visuals are stunning, and the core mechanics feel very well balanced. There is a wide variety of activities which do not overstay their welcome. This game would be a 10 out of 10 if not for some janky camera issues, which many others have pointed out. If this is what Suckerpunch studios are offering, they can expect a dedicated fan for years to come.

I love it, it’s the game I’ve been wanting for absolute years, I played it for 6 hours first time I got my hands on it. The atmosphere, the attention to detail, the story everything is good. Sure the side missions might get repetitive, but got 60 bucks I have more greatly gotten my satisfactions worth. I mainly play PC, and my PS4 had been collecting dust but when I saw this game I had to get it and I am not disappointed. My new favourite game

Siendo la obra de arte que es tiene algunos pequeños bugs/fallos que deberían solucionar con un parche. Esta masterpiece no merece tener estos bugs. Aunque lo compensa la excelencia y la belleza de todo lo demás.


Finally a game that can really be said to be the best game of 2020. Graphics 10/10 game play 10/10 Story 10/10 Control can be stiff and directional at times but still great. I have no idea how the critics gave it such a lower score, but hey they gave tlou2 a 94, and 10/10. I think the time of trusting critics and caring what they they think has passed. The fans are the ones to trust and always have been. I love this game and recommend this game fully.



I watched prod life stream the game if functions like assassin creed but smooth like sekiro dies twice Only giving 10/10 because sjw are Descending upon this game and if you look at the 0/10 people they literally just dropped 10/10 on TLOU2 Update I finished the story and this game definitely gets my 10, its beautiful, the combat its challenging and it makes you question yourself in ways I didn't think before, the game is well worth my money for DLC IF any is released
This game is just so much fun. It takes elements of rdr2, horizon zero dawn, and the infamous serious. It obviously puts its own flair on it by being a beautiful samurai story. This game is amazing and I’ve loved every second I’ve spent playing it
El juego esta muy bien,sus gráficos y escenarios están muy bonitos, su historia es muy interesante y me recordó a otros juegos de ps4, buen juego gg

I am absolutely in love with this game, from the graphics to the music, from the combat to the stealth, it’s all damn near perfect. Funny thing is, while I love the stealth mechanic (seriously this is how an Assassin’s Creed in feudal Japan should be made, get on it Ubisoft), the standoff battles are the fantastic, to challenge your foes, and take out 3 of them with one strike each makes me feel like a BADASS, Game Of The Year contender for sure!
amazing graphics, music and fighting. Poor choice for the camera control during fights but think they wanted to keep the cinematic part of the game. tradition, honor, respect, love for your country, fight against foreigners, there is all and it is amazing.
Este juego es buenísimo, su historia, paisajes, ambientación... te diviertes tanto, valió la pena guardar el dinero del TLOU2 para comprar esta joya..

The game absolutely engulfed me. At times, I felt like a real samurai. Absolutely excellent sound and music. The environment is beautiful. The graphic side of the game disappointed me a bit, but I still have to give the game the full number of points. Maybe an update will be released soon, which fixes minor bugs ..
The game is amazing. Certainly, it is not a 10/10 masterpiece, but it is still a REALLY good game. Even though the dialogs feel sort of "wacky" sometimes, the overall storyline is great. The fighting is well-done, open world is not necessarily full of encounters, but it is clearly not empty.
Love the combat and the gphx ( besides the gphx inside the buildings). I like the story and i am very happy there is no *kill 10 mongols* quests.. Every quest has some story to it. The ai is dumb as hell but thats why i give it a 9 not a 10
I just cannot put this game down, It's been a while however, since the last game where you play as a Samurai. Last game I remember the old Way of the Samurai games but those were truly lackluster in my opinion. The story, graphics, customization options are FANTASTIC. The side quest go from eh to great, the best being the Mythical ones. Combat, hard to learn, easy to master. Sucker Punch did an amazing job of making you feel like a badass Samurai and Ninja.
This is one of the best game, since Skyrim (in my opinion). I have played a lot of story focused games but never in my life none of the games had ever hit my feelings spot, but this game did. In one particular quest hit me really hard and I cried at the end of the quest, because the character reminded me of someone in my life. So this game just became personal to me.
A real love letter to the old style Japanese Samurai movies. Fantastic graphics and art style with a game play that feels so great to play. No game on PS4 this year comes close.


Beautiful open world, Engaging combat mechanics, riveting Narrative. What more do you want?
This game is videogame craftsmannship at its finest. Its a true loveletter to the Akira Kurosawa Samurai movies. I can't say how often i just stood there and watched the landscape. The Gameplay is 100% polished and shows how good fighting mechanics can be. It feels so satisfying switching between the different stances and slashing through the enemies in good old Samurai fashion. The story is not the most amazing story i have ever had but it really just fits right into the game. It's so f*king amazing!


I always wanted to be a samurai this game made me a samurai thank you sucker punch. Graphics 10/10 Stroy 10/10 sound 10/10 Gameplay 10/10 Enough said
Excellent combat, world, characters, and side content. Slightly underrated by critics, this is definitely as a good as the exclusives like Spider-Man or HZD if not better
Es un juegazo, este es mi estilo de juegos muy Parecido a sekiro, lo recomiendo mucho, el apartado gráfico es excelente, aparte de horizon no pensé que otro juego me iba a impresionar por el paisaje.
Visually stunning. Really immersive. Stand-offs make you feel like a bad-ass. Combat is a lot more than hack-and-slash. Learning to switch stance to match opponent in the middle of a mass battle was a challenge. Love the game.

Falls into some of the genre tropes, and let down by some flat characterisation, but otherwise an absolute masterpiece, turning the tired open world into a living breathing space that is full of colour and things to do without making the player feel like they're partaking in busy-work. Combat is an absolute highlight, and as someone who generally approaches RPG settings as the sneaky rogue, I found myself playing the honourable samurai and engaging my foes out in the open just to get another taste of one of the finest melee combat systems in videogaming. My personal game of the year and an easy recommendation for me to make.
Beautiful open world, captivating story and interesting characters. Unique visual design and atmosphere. The combat may just be the very best I´ve ever seen in a video game. Game of the year contender easily!

A good 20-30 hours into this game and I find myself loving everything about it. its a solid 9 in that its only real flaws are hardly flaws at all, that being the stealth in the game is not up there with say a Metal Gear title. but its still very fun nonetheless. The massive open world offers many beautiful locations to take full advantage of its photo mode, as well as set the tone for the epic battles that take place in them. The story being the next downside as its pretty bland and predictable, however the many side quests (Tales of Tsushima and Mythic Tales) offer a deeper look into the lore of the world we find ourselves in. sure not all the side quests offer such, but the companions you set out to recruit offer up some nice "Tales" to get to know them better and develop their character further. Overall the game offers up enough for the player to really want to explore every inch of the massive map. whether it be the vanity pieces (cosmetic items) or the many collectibles and artifacts. you will always have something to do as in most open world AAA's. Combat is where this game really shines, bringing the cinematic dramatization of Samurai epics into play each fight feels rewarding and satisfying. While the minor enemies may not offer up much of a challenge in the later hours, some of the mini bosses and bosses can be tricky. Amazing solid game from Sucker Punch!
1. An amazing game with beautiful graphics and a lot to do, with in depth combat and great story. 2. Don’t believe those low score reviews as they are just review bombing and hav t actually played the game.
замечательная игра,ожидал большего,но это и так шедевр!всем советую!игра года может быть,боевка абилки,все супер,недостатком показались недоделки с графикой
This game is really good, the story is interesting, you can write haiku, play the flute, feel like an actual samurai. The combat system is awesome, if you play on hard the enemies won't become sandbags but the challes is greater!
Excellent game. Pensive, beautiful world, great combat, good story. Not flawless, but any great game is more than the sum of its parts, and this hits that mark
This game is absolutely amazing. The amount of detail in everything is stunning. There's a few issues that irk me like the camera and no lock on system at all in combat and the boats in the ocean not moving when your far up and see tons of boats far out in the distance. Other than that to sum it up this game is a 10/10 in my book. I haven't played a game this good in a long long time.
Awsome game that is open world allowing you to experience everything how you see fit. Characters and story so far make ( only a lil ways in myself) each battle interesting. 100% recomend.

No soy mucho de mundos abiertos, pero como pocos de ellos como shadows of mordor, assassins creed 2 & brotherhood, Spiderman y un par más. Me gusto este como los anteriores ,no llegarme tanto a cautivar como Spiderman pero este juego de samurai está muy bien, gráficos espectaculares.
Great game and I recommend playing it in Kurosawa mode as it adds alot to the atmosphere, it plays fantastically and the controls feel smooth, the camera is a bit wonky though and I wish I could lock onto targets and this is why I didn't give it a 10/10
Great atmosphere and use of color,i love how imersive is following a bird to get side quests ,using the flute and doin haiku poems gives u parts of gear ,really fun game if u love being a samurai in games but if u are a pretend gamer i can see why u would rate this game low
The graphics are good, but that's it. The game seems rushed. The facial animations are lame, the IA of the enemies is laughable. Physics of this game sometimes are absurd, and present a lot of bugs. Camera position obstructs combat sometimes. Cutscenes interrupt the gameplay with black screens. The combat is robotic, it doesn't feel natural at all, like AC. Stealth system is so outdated. The story is ok, a little boring. In the end, this game hasn't brought anything new to the table.
Great fighting. Very atmospheric graphic and music. Story is interesting and open world is big enough to not feel empty. Great characters and acting. Some glitches there and there but nothing bad. Historically it isnt accurate but good enough.
Amazing game you can’t do anything without taking a picture of environment. ا
Ghost of Tsushima é um jogo mundo aberto, com pitadas de jogos de ação famosos, um furtivo ótimo, arsenal de armas e utilidades realmente úteis e efetivos em combate, te permitindo executar mongóis das mais variadas formas e todas elas sendo esbeltas e mangíficas, com a adição do modo Kurosawa, deixando tudo mais parecido ainda com filmes de samurais antigos. A história principal de Jin Sakai é sutilmente genêrica, abordado o tema de honra e tradição de um samurai indo de encontro com a necessidade de Jin em largar a tradição e lutar como um fantasma para derrotar os mongóis, já que os mesmos não lutam com honra, Jin não deve fazer o mesmo, e fará de tudo para alcançar a vitória e ajudar o povo de Tsushima a viverem suas vidas normalmente. O jogo é esteticamenre lindo, esbelto e cheio de cenários de encher os olhos, sendo quase impossível passar mais de 5 minutos sem querer abrir o modo foto e fazer uma obra de arte. O jogo peca em algumas expressões faciais pe na sincronia dos movimentos labiais com a dublagem, que no caso é a japonêsa, e obviamente é a melhor, com um elenco dddicado a entregar a melhor experiência possível, com histórias de personagens secundários sendo executada de maneira fenomenal, cada uma com início, meio e fim, com suas motivações e desejos, tudo isso se entrelaçando com a história de Jin. Sem sombra de dúvida um dos melhores jogos já feitos e fácilmente um do meu Top 10.
Ghost of Tsushima is not a perfect game (there is no such thing). I wouldn’t even say it does anything new that we haven’t seen before. In that way, it does not really advance the industry forward. Everything it does do however, it does so well that it does end up pushing the industry forward drastically in terms standards. This sets a new bar for game devs and proves that you don’t need to continually reinvent the wheel, you just need to focus on making the game kick ass! This is not Sekiro. Sekiro is a grueling game that wants you to play it “it’s way.” Ghost, for me, offered more flexibility in how I approach situations. I felt like it was up to me and how I wanted to approach the situation. “A challenge” was not the main intention of this game but rather to take me on a journey through old Japan while giving me small challenges along the way. Challenges that do not really get old as the combat gameplay loop has such a great deal of variety and feels oh so satisfying. Other notable characteristics are the graphics which are impeccable. Probably one of the most beautiful worlds I’ve ever seen. The game is extremely accurate when it comes to portraying Japan and it’s history. The only inaccuracy that I am aware of in this game is that, in this period of Japan’s history, people talked at a slower pace than they do in the game. This is REALLY getting nit picky and you could even argue that given it’s modern audience, it might have been off putting to have done it that way. Still, I point it out for you to be the judge. I only encountered two hilarious bugs. One where the enemy just kept bouncing up and down about ten feet in the air and the other where Jin (the protagonist) got stuck for like a minute doing like a T-bag motion like in COD. Other than that, I’ve had no problems. The only weakness, if it can even be called that, is the story. I say that because while I found it very engaging, I can see how someone who is less interested in exploring the history of the samurai and Japan may find it a bit dry. It is also not a RPG. You are not going to be making tons of choices that influence the game like you would in other games. It’s an open world with a pretty linear story. Overall, I would say this is a must buy for most people.

This game is the most fun I’ve had in an open world since horizon zero dawn (rdr2 is better but not as fun). The only gripe I have with this game is the climbing. AI can be dumb and it’s quite buggy. The exploration is as organic as any open world has ever been. The world feels so alive with the use of wind, weather and amazing particle effects. Combat is engaging and fun with many upgrades to enhance it further. The story can be meh but the serious tone of everything keeps me interested. 9.5/10 for me

A fantastic game! It is a new assassin's Creed but good.....................
Beautiful and breathtaking. Open world feels like a Mixture of The Witcher and Far Cry. While quest directs are linear and you cannot change the outcome, it’s still beautifully done. The combat is unique, getting used to different stances felt a bit overwhelming at first, but it’s easy to get into after the 1st hour of play through.
One of the best games I've played in a long time! It's great to see Jin go through the struggle of fighting off Mongels, and really coming to terms with becoming the ~ghost~.
This game is deserving of much more praise than it’s getting. The swordplay is smooth and leaves a lot of room for creativity. Enemies aren’t just sponges and can be taken down in short order if you have even a modicum of skill. The settings are brilliant and beautiful. Anybody who is bashing the game has to be trolling or is just a jaded reviewer. I’d like to see Sucker Punch run with this franchise deep into the PS5 life cycle.
يا رجل هرمنا وحنا ننتظر لعبة ساموراي واخيراً جربتها ممتعة جداً وعالمها كبير وفيها اشياء كثير للاستكشاف. انصحكم فيها وبشدة
Espectacular, es lo que necesitábamos, es el broche de oro para nuestra querida ps4.
Love the photo mode, the open world's amazing as well. Getting to change weather with flute, composing poems were great. The outpost liberating is very repititive though and could have been less as well as the fox dens. The first few times it was fun following it but you get annoyed when you have to follow a fox for 50 times and liberate 50 outpost.Supplies really didn't make sense the upgrading weapons and armour section felt weak as it's just getting supplies and a few other stuffs they should have added more individual materials. Story wise it was great and wasn't predictable like most other games felt really betrayed wat ACT 1 ending. Combat wise the duels are really fun but my favourite are always standoffs. Fills up the resolve which was a great touch. I didn't like the stealth mode though no honour in that xD
Mundo aberto extremamente cativante e imersivo, poucos jogos te recompensam por ir atrás de coletáveis, nesse jogo eles são muito bem colocados. Simplesmente o jogo que mais me prendeu nessa geração, quests muito divertidas e interessantes. O combate é bastante satisfatório e prazeroso, o sistema de evolução é uma verdadeira delícia, e não força a barra. As paisagens é o que mais me chama atenção, são de encher os olhos, a arte desse jogo é linda. Parabéns à Suckerpunch por este belo trabalho.
I am about 15+ hours into the game since Friday evening, and I am enjoying every minute of it. There are a few faults here and there, but ultimately this is one of the last AAA titles to allow it's player to be a participant in the story instead of an audience member to an interactive movie and so I want to encourage more of these types of games going into the next console generation. The game rewards your exploration, it challenges you with enemies who can easily best you if you let them flank or surround you, and the upgrade system of weaponry and gear isn't as linear as most games. Instead of numeric values increasing so that you can chase mediocrity against spongier enemies, many qualities of a weapon such as attack speed and stealth detection are also enhanced at the same time. Although this game doesn't go full RPG, I kind of wish more open world RPGs would consolidate their perk system into their blacksmithing the way Sucker Punch has with Ghost of Tsushima. For instance, rolling up to a Mongol-Invaded Territory in full Samurai Clan Gear and calling out their boys for a stand off feels so authentic. I am built not only to have a healthy amount of HP but also gain skill points when I take damage (which can be applied toward healing surges OR amazing attacks to even the playing field). Combine this with some charms that award me health upon the slaying of an enemy and some extra damage when I fall below 50% health and I am more than confident to call attention to half a dozen invading forces and dismantle them honorably. The flipside of this is the Ronin Robes, which lower the rate at which enemies detect me and then give me a generous boost to my melee damage. This way I can quickly go about the same settlement and tear apart as many of their numbers as I can before I have to go loud. And then, with some careful posturing and creative applications of my tool kit I can strike down some formidable enemy types before they have the opportunity to eliminate me in a couple strokes. The risk-reward is very real and I am a veritable glass cannon, but it's a completely different approach than I would have as an honorable Samurai. As I understand it, there are still a few more armor sets to unlock as well. So I am very eager to get back to the game and see what else it has to offer! I highly recommend this game.

It’s an amazing and greatly crafter open world with very good combat mechanics and a captivating story that will make you want to explore and be part of the island and to know the characters that inhabit it.
The game is great. The story is ok but it can be pretty forgettable at times. The side quests and world exploration are what will keep you coming back, and the fact that there is no UI is probably on of my favorite things about the game. The combat is fun, the stealth is fun, and it's just fun to explore.
For this game I don't think even a 10/10 would justify how enjoyable it is. No it's not a perfect game - especially stealth game play felt unpolished and clunky. That's precisely I'm giving it a 9/10 but the entertainment value is so much higher than any 10/10 game you can name, including that TLOU2 crap. Get this game, Seriously!
I'll give this game a total of 8/10 the graphics are really good 9/10, the story is good 9/10, AI is 7/10 it is often really dumb, camera is 7/10 and often annoying with its rotation. I also want to note that this game is no challenge even on the hardest difficulty which is a little sad you just slash through them like butter.
Es Uno de los mejores juegos de mundo abierto que Haya jugado hasta ahora , gráficos jugabilidad ambientación detalles la narrativa es simplemente increíble , ese juego es muy divertido nunca me he aburrido en jugarlo la exploración y el sistema de combate me parece excelente muy muy divertido , es un juego muy original y la banda sonora es fascinante me he divertido muchísimo y lo recomiendo al 100%

I really have no idea where to start from. Right off the bat, this game is an absolute masterpiece. The graphics are superb, environments, characters, lights, shadows, weather, everything thing in this game screams beauty. The gameplay is "FUN", the combat system is one of the most satisfying and it never gets stale. The story is a great historic fiction that is surprisingly very interesting and it kept me engaged throughout. I will definitely do another playthrough with Kurosawa mode. Clearly, Sucker Punch put incredible effort crafting this masterpiice and the result is basically game of the year! in conclusion, this game is worth every penny. This generation could not have ended better for Sony and Playstation 4.



This game is incredible I had to create a metacritic account and rate it because it's so impressive. Beautiful world, fluid combat, meaningful character upgrades and development. 1 bug I've encountered. Amazing game. These critic reviews are unbelievable to me. They're not true gamers. Trust the player reviews more than the critics. This is one of those games you never want to end. The multiple story arcs are incredible.

A great game, the world is beautiful and vibrant. Good use of the dual shock controller compared to other 1st party games. I felt at times that Jin as a main character was forgetable, there isn't much too him but apart from that and some writing problems. It's a solid game
Its not a perfect game but its so good i love the world of tsushima the story ist ok the side quest our very good i love the gameplay its very good. So far best game of this year
Ghost of Tsushima is one of those rare gems of a game, where you do not want to put your controller down. Bravo, Sucker Punch, bravo! This game puts many of other open world titles to shame: gameplay is smooth, combat feels natural and swords feel heavy, story is compelling if a bit cliche, graphics are second to none, music and voice acting are superb! What a way for PS4 to go out: with a bang!
Ghost of Tsushima is a work of outstanding craftsmanship and excellence. The environmental design and sense of exploration may be the finest of any open world games yet. The combat is fluid, challenging and continues to evolve right into the end game. The visuals and audio are extraordinary, the best of the generation. Ghost of Tsushima is not perfect, it does lack some polish in a few small areas. But it gets so much right and elevates the open world genre beyond its perch since Witcher 3 and RDR2 that anything less than 10 feels like an injustice. While time will tell, I believe Ghost of Tsushima will be counted as among the greatest open world games of this generation.
Game's great a perfect farewell to the ps4 with a banger exclusive. We will definitely see a sequel on the ps5. Great job sucker punch truly beautiful game
its a samurai game, literally nothing else to say. There's about 8-10 side activity types but they're so fun it doesn't really matter, combat is amazing, story is perfect.
LOVE THIS F@#KING GAME!!! I needed a fix after beating The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt multiple times and I found this it's almost like the witcher can't wait to beat this game
Great game overall, start is slow but it makes sense with the story and ends up being pretty interesting. The gameplay is great. Combat is fun. There are some easy to notice bugs but everything else makes up for it. Solid game.
Story and characters are awesome. Graphics, art and music are one of the best ive seen. Gameplay its fast and satisfactory. Exploring dynamics are awesome. The customization will keep u engaged into exploring more. My only complain with the game is that its better than the last of Us 2 but western journalist reviewers are a bunch of ****
I have only brought 2 games this year. Final fantasy remake and GOT. GOT is beautiful and the graphics flows with every scene. The sword play is amazing and the gameplay is very tight. The Japanese landscape is remarkable, it feels like I am in that period of time. The only issue i had was the lip syncing, that is it. No game is perfect, but this is Damn near it. No agendas, great fun and challenging. Have fun.


That's was amazing,gameplay & music & fight The best possible mode...The gameplay system of the game is very similar to the ac series(ac odyssey & origings) but In many ways it will be better than them.There are two modes for advancing the stages of samurai and ghost,im played every mission in ghost :-) The only drawback of the game that can be taken is the flaw of artificial intelligence and some graphic details


This game besides being beautiful stunning, the gameplay is pretty cool sometimes you think you are a character in a Japanese movie of samurais. It is not hard but has enough challenges to make you think twice before going rampant. An interesting story and an awesome open world.


The visuals, combat, exploration and music is some of the best I have ever seen in a game. The fact that it's in the samurai period is icing on the cake. This is one of my favourite games of all time and I really hope for a sequel or something similar from Suckerpunch.
it's not a rockstar world, but it's fantastic in its own right! digging the game quite a lot. i'm glad someone branched out and finally made an open world japan game!
What an amazing cinematic experience! It reminds me of assassins creed but seems to be a lot better. Tons of customization, and gameplay is excellent. One of the most beautiful looking games I have ever seen. A huge W for PS.
This game is a combination of Legend of Zelda BOTW and Sekiro Shadows Die Twice. It is a vast open world on the island of Tsushima where every location you go to feels fully detailed and realized. The combat mechanic is fluid and responsive even though the stealth could use a little bit of refining. (Easily patchable in updates) The graphics in the game are jaw dropping and I find myself taking moments just to appreciate the particle effects and lighting rays in any location. This is a game that is best enjoyed like a fine whiskey. Take your time and sip it, don’t chug it just to get through it. One major flaw I see is the lack of a lock-on mechanic. (something in the vain of a FromSoftware title) I see this game as being a launch title or early release for the PS5 and I’ll definitely be picking it up again. Warning: this game is for those who wish to scratch a Samurai Kurosawa itch that is rare to find.
Still haven't finished the game, but it's one of kind game, and right choice to finish the ps4 era with with pushing the graphical standard to the maximum, you can clearly see the hard effort that is put in to this game while making it. My only issue is the Japanese mouth movement, like i think that the majority of people would like to play this game in Japanese, even the non weeb ones because this game is literally in Japan and about Japanese culture, hope in your next title of the game we will have the original mouth movement to be in Japanese and the dub to be in English. Still thank you for making a masterpiece.
Where to begin? Incredible combat system, breathtaking scenery, a real engaging and satisfying plot and a real samurai feeling. A must have for ps4 owners! 10/10

Good story, side quests and great gameplay! This game is visually stunning and full of small details that shows thegreat effort of Sucker Punch's dev team. It has plenty of things to do all over this huge map and the skill progressions is just perfect, offering a variety of styles for fighting . The only flaws i see are framedrops during fights and loading times and the fact that you can't select the enemy you want to fight aginst. But this is such a great game that I recommend to everyone to play.

Ghost of Tsushima is the game we have been waiting years for, and boy was this the best time for it to come out. The ps4 exclusive scene has seen some truly great games, like the game of the year in 2018s Spider-Man. Another exclusive to win game of the year would be The last of us. But this exclusive to close out all PlayStation exclusives would be this perfection of game creation. Never have I seen a more Perfect particle sim, and the bloody combat really reels it all back in. This game should win game of the year this year, but not being politically against TLOU2 but because it truly ldeserves it.
This game is prone to controller drifting issues and needs a deadzone slider asap. The HDR is not well calibrated from the start and luminosity needs to be pushed 100% to benefit from beautiful natural colors and non-crushed blacks. It lacks a bit of variety and smooth transitions in some animations. But the combat is very precise and engrossing with quite a lot of depth. The faces and textures are beautiful for an open world and the art style is perfect for this scope allowing a wonderful image quality at buttery smooth frame rate. It's also worth mentioning the very quick load times something that has plagued this gen since the beginning. AI is not too reactive but it does work well in both stealth and normal combat mode... something even big shots at rockstar still don't master. Its a wonderful game with refreshingly no satanic type agenda attached, no toxic or pompous or despiteful heads of studios or lead actors either... You can see there's no "protected" species involved when you read the lower scored "professional" reviews. Thankfully consumers and gamers are seeing through most of this bs. Keep your dogs on a leash Jim Ryan we need some positivity in entertainment.

The game is ok. iI like it. Combat is a little sloppy but still fun! Visuals are amazing. I have some gripes with the open-world part and sidequests, they are a little tedious.
Great game only thing I thought was off was way camera angles we're off. I think I would have rated 10 if it cam angles were bit more like Assassin's Creed Odyssey

This is a great game with amazing visuals.The combat can be a bit tedious at the beginning till you defeat more leaders and gain more experience. The ninja/ghost weapons have a wide range of uses and the leveling is constant. The side quest/events become tedious till you feel the results in combat e.g higher health or more resolve. I love the collectibles learning about the Mongols through artifacts or trying to find more cosmetics to get that cool looking sword. The Music and the cutscenes are phenomenal.
Great game, enjoying it immensely. I just like to roam around doing random stuff, like swimming around the island - only to find a lot of it is cliffs and it wasn't such a good idea in the end. But I enjoy games that let you just wander and do your own thing. And the setting is just fantastic, makes me want to watch all those old Samurai films again. Nice characters, good voice acting, great combat, ott visuals .. game is seriously impressive.
The game has its flaws (a bit useless stealth and buggy engine) but still worth to play. It feels realy authentic with all that great views and japanese setting, plus combat is realy engaging so if you like old samurai movies you should definitely try it.
The butthurt kiddies review bombing this game because of the train wreck that is TLOU2 are either neckbeards or children. GG to them. Awesome setting. Awesome gameplay. And absolutely, drop dead GORGEOUS. Treat yourself to something worthwhile and grab this gem.


the gameplay was very good and the atmosphere was SO SO NICE!!! everything in this game was great but some missions get boring but I am ok with that because the game has great gameplay.

Summer 2020 Finally has a game it can be proud of! This is by far the best ancient warrior vibes types game I have ever played! Every literal second of this game was FUN and Amazing. I swear the creators of this game put their heart and soul into it. Game Of The Year 2020!!!
After spending 15 hours, I think this game is beautiful and quite expansive. I really like the way it is portrayed. Especially the combat. The combat of this game is very fluent and does not get stale even after spending countless hours. The soundtrack, the visuals, the world, whats not to like here? The only complaint I have is about the character themselves. They do not lip sync at all and their cutscenes are also bland. The story is good. Just good and interesting enough for me to not skip it. Otherwise a very good game except some animation flaws. I would also say that the enemy AI is not upto the mark and that red glint just annoys me, but after a while you tend to ignore it.



The main reason the game is so good because of splendid game environment and open world elements. Anyone who doesn't want too much of RPG and want is simple will love this game.


This game is art. The environment looks fantastics, the trees, plants, lighting is awesome. The combat is great and the open world in general too! Some side missions are repetitive but the experience is still good because the combat and the open world are solid. The boss fights and personalization are also a good. I definitely recommend this game. ✌️

Прошёл на сложном, в этой игре идеально всё кроме тесктур, но из-за этого быстрые загрузки. На ПС5 думаю добавят патч с текстурами. Тенчу/Секиро в открытом мире без магии, стилизованный под старые Японские фильмы из 90-х... ещё хочу (: 10 из 10
Fantastic game! Like a mix between Assassin's Creed and The Witcher 3 set in a beautifully realized historical Japanese environment. Nicely sized world packed neatly with a good amount of content without seeming like the gross excess copy/pasting you see in many other open world games (I'm calling you out, Ubisoft). Side quests are really good and meaningful, most of them involving going deeper into the storyline of the prominent NPCs you will meet along in your journey. Gameplay is pretty good. Swordplay looks (and SOUNDS) really great. Playing on Hard difficulty is a decent challenge, especially early on before you get a few important skills and equipment upgrades. Controls are responsive but took some getting used to because the muscle memory I had from other games doesn't work here (trying to sneak in a perfect parry in the middle of an enemy combo usually ends in pain, whereas in a game like Sekiro you can weave parries almost any time). My only real big gameplay complaint is that the camera is often pretty bad, where it will move in locations where you can't see your character or be in such a close proximity where you will get hit by enemies off screen. I really hope we see more like this from Sucker Punch in the future!
Very surprised with this game. Going in I thought it would be an Assassins Creed clone, but it is much more. The world they built is absolutely stunning, and the characters and details inside it make it feel truly alive. Easily one of the best games I have played this generation I would recommend this game to anyone!
One of the best games that have come out in 2020. The visual spectacle, the challenging yet rewarding combat and the beautiful scenery all over the map make for an excellent experience. Though it still needs some polishing her and there, it does not affect the experience in a major way.
The graphics are stunning in the island of Tsushima is amazing the combat only gets better as you progress as more options open up so the beginning is a little stale but then about two hours in the whole game really picks up I am not completed yet but the storyline is amazing from what I’ve gone through K recommend this enough if you like horizon zero Dawn this is the equivalent of that with samurai

Fun and amazing game that's not shoving any narratives down at us. Open world is pretty huge and does have things to do. People who get bored clearly dont like playing these types of games, but I definitely don't get bored. Wish it waa a but harder but overall a 9/10 for me.
Combat is amazing but camera can leave you open sometimes due to no physical lock on. I would usually play a samurai / Japanese style game in Japanese but the audio doesn’t line up AT ALL and it looks awful so I had to play in English. Other than that the game is unreal and you should play it.
Beautiful environments, fluid combat system, historically accurate content. Ghost of Tsushima delivers a much needed update to the genre. The stealth system does need a little work and the graphics could be a bit more polished. However the promise of making you feel like a Samurai checks every box. All in all this is a great game that many lovers of Japanese lore and this time period will enjoy.
Gameplay is solid, story is great and holy hell is it beautiful to look at. This was a much needed breath of fresh air after certain massive disappointments that have come out lately, hope to see more in future!


First off, I want to preface this review by saying I hate open world games. I despise playing a game and having so much freedom to do anything, that it makes me not want to do anything! Like red dead, and Skyrim. Quit them both in a matter of hours. Ghost of Tsushima however, has kept me absolutely enthralled. I played 10 hours straight when the game came out because I couldn’t put it down, and with that I have only done a few of the main missions! I’ve been doing all side missions and exploring. This game is masterfully done and absolutely beautiful. Every character is interesting in their own way and it makes the game such a worth while play.
Es un juego inmersivo dentro del mundo del honor samurai a través de una muy buena ambientación jugabilidad y estilos de combate. Se podria mejorar algunos fallos de la IA y sincronizacion de dialogos. Algunas misiones secundarias y combates son repetitivos pero aportan en la evolución del personaje. La historia es entretenida en conjunto con la puesta en escena del mundo abierto. Vale la pena jugarlo
now this game is what i've been looking for! a simply fun game without political **** that developers wants to shove in gamer's asses!!! like i feel lot more better that we have a cool game after what they did to tlou 2! it was real messed up!.....this game is so much fun to play... graphics are awesome and the world is dynamic and beautiful, side quests feels like main quests! and combat system is so much fun not so hard like sekiro and not so easy that you feel like you're a hero and you can rush any battle! that's right, you have to take your time sometimes and stealth your way into the enemy's camp or you'll face death!!!....there are some wired bugs though obviously and sometimes the animations are not that good but overall ghost of tsushima is a fun game!
Ghost of Tsushima is the most artistic game I've ever played. Graphic of this game proves that video game is really high art. Beautiful song track,lovely characters and good story makes this game unforgettable.There are some minor problems with gameplay like repetitive side quests but overall it's so good

Game is amazing, played for hours right out of the box. I love the combat, simple yet challenging, the visuals are amazing, great omage to old samurai films, which I love. So far playing with Japanese voice actors, mainly because of Kazuya Nakai the voice of roronoa zoro from One Piece, and so far he's amazing. Love it.
Ghost of Tsushima is an absolutely gorgeous masterpiece in my eyes. Visually as stunning and often more stunning than any game I have played before it and even movies I have seen before it. The visual art style is so breathtaking and is a technical marvel to behold. The story is nothing super new as it is focused around historical accounts from (But from a fictional characters perspective) Japan in the time of the Samurai as the Mongolians attack. The gameplay is fun and exploring the world is intriguing due to its look. The wind guidance system is a breath of fresh air keeping the HUD super minimal. It’s not a perfect game but it is one of the best I have played not only on the PS4 but on any system period. It also has one of the best sound tracks and use of sound in anything I have played before. Thanks Sucker Punch for helping me love video games again after another one made me hate them recently.

This game is a masterpiece! It’s like an improved witcher 3 except you’re a samurai. The graphics are gorgeous, the combat is smooth, there is a ton of content and the story is excellent. The more I play it the more I am impressed by it. Sucker Punch has done an amazing job with this game I highly recommend it to everyone.

Loving every detail in this game, the atmosphere in Japanese culture, every hit, every stance and move in this game is so satisfying, storyline is decent, the level design - the graphic is absolutely stunning, it's like the peak of the PS4. My only complaint is that they have done so much for the game but the lips sync system for Japanese is quite bad.

EL juego puede que no sea el mejor juego de mundo abierto , pero creo que si es el juego de mundo abierto más hermoso . El apartado artístico de este juego , deja muy por detrás a sus principales competidores , con una variedad de biomas impresionante , una densidad de partículas y algo que yo personalmente le doy mucha importancia , hierva , el mundo tiene hierva , flores , pequeños arbustos . La variedad cromática que consigue el juego logra que te quedes con la boca abierta en más de una ocasión . Y aunque alabo el tema artístico , el tema del músculo gráfico no se queda nada atrás , con unos gráficos que quitan el hipo , unas animaciones faciales que rozan el valle inquietante . Tampoco todo es bueno , los interiores de las casas pecan de repetitivos , algunos objetos como las asas de los carros , Jin las atraviesa , algunos pequeños problemas de cámara cuando peleas en interiores . Solo me queda recomendároslo a todos . Saludos

I love its landscapes, its samurai atmosphere and I like its gameplay. This is the real PS4 exclusive no like a the disaster of tlous2. Very good Sucker Punch.
Ghost of Tsushima is such a great take on an open-world adventure. Think Assassin's Creed before Origins, and then dump a loving homage to Samurai films all over it. The environment is beautifully made with so much color throughout the landscape. The combat lets you feel like a Samurai, with your katana dispatching enemies in 2-3 hits, and not 9-10 as if they're some kind of damage sponge. The Story is also great, feels like it's ripped out of a Kurosawa film, the game even has a "Kurosawa Mode" to add a black and white film overlay, complete with old-time film-grain. I've been playing this since Friday morning and I haven't felt the need to put it down. Travel the island, see the sights, and snap a few beautiful screenshots. The game easily gets a 9/10 for me, even with the few minor bugs that exist.
Ghost of Tsushima drew me in from its very first opening sequence and never let me go. I absolutely could not put this game down. Unbridled fun nearly at every turn. Its deep options not only for combat but the way in which you approach said combat was a real joy. Its sprawling gorgeous environments were truly awe inspiring. So often I found myself wanting to stop and just take in its breathtaking scenery. I seriously can not say enough about the art direction of this game. I loved this games hud design where everything just seems to be done in a way to serve immersion. Even the way you are guided by the wind to seek quest and places added to the immersion. The games protagonist is compelling and a lot of time is spent fleshing out its host of interesting side characters very well thought out quest. Sound is immaculate and though I came across a few bugs none were so glaring that they ruined the gaming experience and I believe they will be patched quickly. Lots of worthwhile loot and collectibles to find. Love the lore that you can discover to learn more about the world. If you are a fan of open world immersive action games with deep customization and great rpg Elements, I highly recommend this game!
Honest to God, one of the better games I've played in recent memory. If you are a fan of the Breath of the Wild style open-world games, then Ghost is a must-buy. The story is definitely a slow burner, so be prepared for that. Voice acting is also good in either English or Japanese! Admittedly, I am a huge Kurosawa fanboy and thus love playing in Ghost's glorious "Kurosawa mode" that makes everything look like one of his old black/white movies. All of this stuff is good, but the best thing in this game is the combat. On the surface, it looks like another Assassins Creed clone, but there is enough curveballs thrown in there (stances, ninja weapons) to keep it feeling fresh and engaging!
Start with the TL:DR - beautiful game that sets the mood and immerses you in the struggle of being a Samurai vs being something else, something you must become to save your people. Everything fits together nicely, story, graphics, music, gameplay that sets the tone masterfully throughout the experience. A few bugs and wonky things could be annoying at times. Graphics - 10, love the style Music - 8, nothing memorable but it works very well Gameplay - 9 Story - 10, I am invested, can't wait to play more. On to the more in depth stuff. This game is visually breathtaking. I lose myself for hours just walking amidst the falling leaves. I've already clocked 20 hours in so far and savoring every minute. The portrayal of Jin's struggle between the Samurai code and what needs to be done to save his people is masterful. You really feel the pain of his decisions that lead him further from his code. I'm invested. Graphically, the game's scenery and style is gorgeous. They sacrifice a bit of fidelity in their character models to achieve such rich and breathtaking environments, and that's a trade-off I'm all for. So far I haven't experienced any frame drops etc; I am playing on a Pro. Load times are surprisingly fast. Admittedly I do have a nice SSD in my Pro, but nonetheless they feel like the fastest I've seen in a game. Comparing to my recollection of the load times in Death Stranding, Spider-Man, Horizon Zero Dawn, FF7r. Music is very soothing and mood setting. I particularly enjoy the pause in gameplay to write the haikus and admire the scenery. Nothing about the music is particularly memorable, but that's not necessarily a bad thing as it just rounds off the presentation of everything in the game. Animations can be a bit wonky sometimes. When jumping onto a railing I thought I could walk on, I basically straddled it and continued floating as if in mid jump for several seconds before the game teleported me to stable ground. You'll often NPCs in the distant standing weirdly until you get close enough to set off their animations. This is particularly weird when it's a thieves vs Mongols group. Combat is interesting. I'm playing on hard mode right out of the gate and I've definitely died quite a few times (more on dying in a sec)! The standoffs are nice, not just mechanically, but thematically as well. It's the portrayal of the side of Jin bound by the Samurai code, looking his enemies in the eyes. I feel a sense of honor engaging conflicts this way. Parrying feels good, but blocking can buy you the time you need to prepare for a good parry. Some things have to be dodged vs parry/block. There's good variety in fights, and it hasn't gotten any less thrilling for me over the hours. Probably helps that I'm on hard mode and it's unforgiving to miss a dodge and take a hit. One of my biggest complaints about the game is death. There's almost no penalty to dying. Even items you just picked up before during the fight stay with you after death. Random encounters in the field just despawn if you die. You can kind of use dying to your advantage to initiate a standoff to refill your resolve against a group you just lost to. I want death to be meaningful and scary. And while the actual act of dying is quite brutal, the repercussions on your game is virtually non-existent. Long review.... But hey I'm passionate about this game and can't wait to play more!!
I'm loving the game. It's not a huge innovation on the open world genre, but it's fun its a fun romp in this feudal Japan era. Being a Souls fan, it took a while to get used to not having a "lock on", but once learned, every battle is fun and more open. I'm playing on Hard mode and combat is not that difficult once you learn the "dance". Plenty of armor and accessories to acquire with side quests to make this a bit easier if you choose. Visuals and sound are great, enough has been said on that. The story lines for side quests are a bit repetitive and not that imaginative... but still fun. It reminds me of a "Witcher Lite": Story not as in-depth, not as many RPG elements, and similar "more fun" melee combat. The combat "stances" are key to the fun and success of each fight. I've got about 20 hours in and am only 8% of the story. (getting armor and weapon upgrades). Great game to send off the PS4!

This game is poetry in motion. I get completely sidetracked by the beauty of the world in this game. The game playes similarly to AC Odyssey but unlike Odyssey, this game is masterfully done and it respects the culture and history present in the game...unlike Odyssey.



I really enjoy this game. Side quest are straight to the point. Questing in general is very fun and not a time sink. It is visually appealing, the combat is fluid and rewarding, and this game in some ways makes you feel at peace.


Incredibly beautiful world, great combat and good story. The characters could’ve used a bit more emotion but the end result was worth it. From area to area I caught myself stopping to look at the small details in this gorgeous setting. The side missions were even good. Following different characters through those quests were ultimately satisfying. I can’t wait to see if a sequel is in the works. Great job to Sucker Punch studios!


This game is wonderful. That’s all I got. I’m a massive fan of samurai films; kurasawa, inagaki, shindo, and gosha. Knowing that Japan is loving this right now, so am I.
Fantastic game so far. It has beautiful graphics and environments, fun game play, and a decent story. The combat flows very well and is especially fun. The perfect swan song for the PS4. It's worth your money and is actually enjoyable to play. Unlike TLOU2, whose only similarity to GoT is the stunning graphics.
This game is incredible, from its gorgeous views to it's downright combat, sure it has its flaws (storywise) and AI is kinda dumb but overall Tsushima island is breathtaking, full of life everywhere you look. Suckerpunch knocked it out of the park and this game proves that it was worth the wait.


A true visually appealing game with great gameplay. The combat has much high risk high reward mechanics you can unlock and punishes you if you don't pay attention to your surroundings. It's a masterpiece and GOTY candidate for me. Lot of love and respect for japanese culture went into this game.
this is one of the best game ive play this year i dont like to give 10s but this game is so close but i had some small issues nothing major some small glitches. normally i wouldnt complete an area 100% in an open world game but on this i have and loved every second of it the combat is awesome and challenging but not to the point where it makes you wanna stop playing, this is largely to the way they lead to events in the world by using visual cues like smoke, the guiding bird and wind or the colour of trees there is basiclly no hud and makes the game so much more immersive. the story is on the grim side due to it being based on war but it is done so well and the side misson are great some are a bit basic but most are interesting due to things like legends of warriors/areas or the effects of the war on people lifes.
Combat is really good, can take a few hours for the parrying and dodge to really click, but once it does you start to feel like a real badass. I also love the progression, theres lots of side quests and various tasks that really flow with the main story and dont seem like too much of a chore, especially as the rewards can be very satisfying, depending on the side quest. would have given 10/10 but the jumping mechanics are a little bit sensitive and buggy, otherwise a brilliant game.
Great game that uses minimal HUD and amazingly designed environments to keep you immersed. While the game lacks innovation from open world tropes it does take the best parts of past games and uses them to create a unique experience worth playing

The world of this game is beautiful, but the Al moving and reacting is so dumb

This game is a masterpiece. I am loving the graphics and the gameplay! Unbelievable how fun this game is and how beautiful this game is. Thank you for saving gamers from having to spend COVID-19 without a good game to play. Thanks again Sucker punch!
I am already a huge fan of samurai and Japanese culture. This is the samurai game I always wanted. I love the anime “Bleach” because of the Japanese culture and the use of katanas. This game is phenomenal. I am doing all the side quests that I can and I’m 10 hours into the game but only on chapter 1 because the game is so good. Jedi Fallen order let us feel like a Jedi. Red Dead 2 made us feel like a cowboy and Ghost of Tsushima makes us feel like an actual samurai. Wonderful game

This game is one of the best ps4 exclusives out there right now. If You haven't already got it then I highly recommend you to do so. Everything from the graphics and beautiful scenery of the game is great. I really like the story and the fighting as well. This is a really well-made game.
Gotta give it an 8 for my experience, the game is visually amazing, the flow of combat is fun and somewhat unique compared to others it resembles, and the story is engaging also I didn't experience any bugs which is always nice, although I will say it had a slow start in my opinion, but the historical accuracy is quite breathtaking, if your looking for a real japanses samurai slasher that is accurate as possible to real combat and tactics used in the era there isn't a better option in my opinion, the only thing I see being a downside to this game is the fact it isn't new gamer friendly it will be extremely difficult to the rookie tier of gamers even at the easiest difficulty, if that wasn't the case I would definitely give it a 9
Playing over 20 hours of this game and I am loving it so much. Cons, the camera need some love, and the AI need some work, the enemies offers a little bit of challenge if memorized their attack patterns. That why 9 not 10 I recommend playing it if you like open world adventure games
Ghost of Tsushima takes the best elements of Assassins Creed and Far Cry, throws in some of the signature Sucker Punch flair that made Infamous so successful and ends up being something that is both familiar and unique at the same time. The stealth elements are not the strongest, and aside from the missions requiring stealth, I almost always took the more forward approach to combat, but the freedom to DO that is part of what makes the game so good. Sony has consistently released incredible, single player, story focused exclusives for the PS4, and Ghost of Tsushima stands tall as one of their best yet."
The scenery, the map, the story, the customisation and combat is out of this world. Map reminds me of Zelda breath of the wild and combat is always engaging and challenging. Im happy this game has succeeded despite a few bugs that occurs but they are easy to overcome.

Sucker punch has created a very beautiful live world which will indeed make u stop and mesmerize at the things going around you! A beautiful game in every aspect! Loved it! If u ever wanted to be a samurai in feudal japan this is the one!!!
Excelente juego, considero que fue una apuesta arriesgada por parte de la compañía pero que fue acertada, el combate esta muy bien trabajado, al ser un juego ambientado en una invasión cada personaje tiene su rol y historia que contar, cada uno busca la manera de sobrevivir. Junto con lo anterior la iluminación es muy hermosa, bien trabajado el HDR y se nota que profundizaron en la cultura, mis felicitaciones!
Wow. This is an amazing game. Full blown old Japanese Culture on full display. This game has the heart and soul of a great game. It also has a great story and fun to play!! Even the side missions are interesting and impactful. The swordplay is well done and the skill choices are many. You can easily find your playstyle and have fun!! The open world is huge, beautiful with lots to do. So many beautiful places to take pics in camera mode if you wanted. The game just came out and I have seen hardly any bugs. Its so polished!! Only found one graphic bug when I called my horse to me and it looked like it morphed into a pole but fixed itself promptly. Best samurai game of the year. :)
About half way. So far a 9 out of ten. Good story, good characters, but the thing thats best is its fun to play. Exploring the world and partaking in the combat never gets old(yet). If this keeps up it'll be my favorite game this year. At least until Cyberpunk 2077 comes out, then we'll see. Since The Witcher 3 is my favorite game ever I have high expectations. For now, Tsushima is awesome. Definitely a must buy.
It's standard open world fare, but unlike, say, a Ubisoft product, which piles systems on systems for the sake of systems, Tsushima uses each element to further and sustain its themes and setting. That means the familiar feels fresh again. Meanwhile, the combat is challenging; the skill trees are useful; the map rewards exploration; the side quests are substantial. And it's very pretty. So, spend the money you saved not buying The Last of Us 2 on Tsushima. Your expectations are at no risk of being "subverted" here.
Simplemente espectacular calidad tanto en paisajes como en el resto del mundo, combate frenético y muy bien echo, el mundo está lleno de cosas q hacer y los relatos de espadachines famosos son un gran acierto en definitiva para mí una obra maestra
I literally can’t put it down. It’s not perfect, it has a few bugs here and there, but the combat makes up for it. Big up to sucker punch for delivering this beautiful and fun game!

Esse game foi além das minhas expectativas, por mais que ocorreu downgrade gráfico e uma mudança notável na paleta de cor do game,rmou um game com um sistema já manjado em uma experiência visual linda, junto de uma gameplay fluida e viciante e com uma história extramamente cativante e reflexiva
While there are some little problems to fix,like some of the Assassination Animations,and if you try to jump from side to side while climbing, or when you get hit from a boar..Ghost of Tshushima is a rare cool breeze in the air..very enjoyable game play,easy and fun to navigate the world,and the battles are awesome!some even more than that..The stand of “gig” really can give you chills at parts of the game..high level of gaming experience..I’ll recommend


As a person who loves medieval Japan I am having a blast, I love the story. The scenario, and the beauty plus the story makes you forget the classic open world repetitive stuff. I am super immersed, there is the presence of diversity although it does not feel forced. Id say a near perfect game
One of the best games that I've ever played. Loads of options on how to approach combat, the world feels alive and is amazing to look at. The story also has immense thematic value to it. A must-play it you own a PS4.
The atmosphere, the dedication, the skill. The game truly sets you in the boots of what it's set out to do, a true samurai that has to bend his ways in order to defeat the greater foe.
Haven't finished it yet but so far loving the game. Everything is really good from Environment to story and combat OH THE COMBAT! The combat is the best thing about this game.
Siendo justo, este juego no es perfecto. Pero en conjunto, sin duda alguna le pega una sobada al The Last of Us. Los personajes se desarrolla MAS y mejor, las historias de venganza no se sienten forzadas por McGuffins o pataletas emocionales. El juego muestra una invasión Mongola sobre una isla japonesa que sufre y lucha como puede, mientras que el personaje principal evoluciona desde los primeros pasos, sufriendo realmente y sintiendo como su propio modo de vida se rompe entre el Samurai y su educación familiar y la persona del Fantasma que es la antítesis del propio codigo de Bushido.
В ghost of tushima мне понравилось 1. Переданная атмосфера средневековой Японии (хотя я не знаю как Япония выглядела в средневековье) на ура 2 по сравнению с пк, графика на консоли тоже на ура 3 сюжет лучше чем в TLOU2 (по моё мнению) 4 боевка лучше чем в секиро Итог игра стоит свои деньги если вам нравится стиль игры, и вы любите хорайзон как и я
Just a fun game to get lost in. The story is good but not great. The combat is incredibly fun and there’s so many side missions but they’re all fun to do!
Ghost of Tsushima is, in a word, ‘fun’. The gameplay loop of riding your horse through beautifully breathtaking environments and taking down group after group of enemy never gets boring, through the 40+ hours of content (including side missions). The combat in this game cannot be oversold. It is the best combat I have played in a game ever, which is not something I say lightly. Using Jin’s katana is extremely satisfying and the cosmetic upgrades truly makes it feel like it’s yours. The combat progression, throughout the game, is paced masterfully, which never allows the combat to get repetitive and constantly gives you new ways to defeat your foes. However, where the game falls short in my opinion is it’s characters and robot-like NPCs. The characters in this game (aside from Jin and a select few) are boring and all the same. They all address Jin in the same way for example, have poor lip syncing animations and always ask for help regarding the same things, such as ‘save my daughter’ or ‘there are enemies at this location’ etc etc. Doing missions for these repetitive drones gets dull quick, but is however an excuse to kill more bad guys with the fantastic combat, so there is a silver lining. In terms of narrative and writing the game is good enough. The story keeps you motivated enough to keep going but don’t expect a gripping story similar to the likes of a naughty dog narrative (pre-Last of us 2). The writing is also just that ‘good enough’, with characters who feel somewhat real but lack any significant arcs or interesting back story. Overall, Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing game, with its full price, and worth of a play through as soon as you can manage. The combat is nothing short of satisfying, fun and engaging, with a very playable story and decent characters. The game deserves the praise it’s been getting, but of course that is just my opinion.
Such well polish game love the story the great characters beautiful graphics I love every single hour I put in the game . Awesome job sucker punch

This is how it's done. This game is fun to play and there's a ton of stuff to do. It helps that it also looks amazing. I've been playing it for several hours now and I've barely uncovered any of the map. This is going to be a game I take my time with and savor every minute. I hope Sucker Punch doesn't get destroyed from the inside the way Naughty Dog was because this game is excellent. Exactly the opposite of another recent PS4 exclusive that wasn't even worth a 0. Sucker Punch actually seems to respect their customers, rather than spit on them.

I'm 15h in - this is my first metacritic review and can't stop playing this game - the combat is brilliant, the story is interesting. Ghost of Tsushima has the best looking game world I have ever seen. I can't believe my eyes when I realize I'm playing it on a base PS4. It's game of the year for me until Cyberpunk is out :)


Llevaré alrededor de unas 15 horas sin salir tan siquiera de la primera zona, y es magnífico el juego que ha desarrollado Sucker Punch. Puede que gráficamente no sea lo más puntero (más después de lo visto en TLOU Parte II), pero artísticamente es una delicia, se nota el trabajo del estudio recreando tanto la época como la cultura japonesa. Mención especial para la optimización, donde el juego carga a una velocidad vertiginosa, tanto en viaje rápido, como tras morir. El 8 viene dado simplemente porque siempre hay algo mejorable en todos los juegos. Aún siendo notable, una mejor IA enemiga y aliada, y una mejora en las físicas, no le hubiera venido nada mal para hacerlo un juego insuperable. Aún así, es un juego imperdible, que todo el mundo debería jugar si quiere sentirse como un verdadero samurái.
Great gameplay, it is really fun to play but the story is not that great, Masako's tale was better than the Jin's tale. Characters not interesting. Easy to play even on hard. Good game to play without thinking of anything, just play. 8/10 it is enough.


Truly fantastic and fun game with a MUCH better story than previous PS4 titles. Refreshing and true to its nature, it is a game that all samurai genre fans will enjoy.
It’s a beautiful game. I’ve literally fallen in love for nature of Tsushima. The game play is fun. You’ll find it difficult at first but overall you’ll get use to it by time and oh my god when he strikes the enemies you’ll feel satisfaction from it. Highly recommend it. Thank you Sucker Punch for this beautiful game.i
I have to say I’m so relieved that 2020 didn’t deliver yet another big disappointment. Thank you Sucker Punch for making a game I actually want to play! This isn’t a perfect game, but I’ve put about 30 hours in and I’m really enjoying it. The writing is not great, and the loot system is terrible. However, the action, exploration, and atmosphere are amazing. It really is the best samurai game to date.
The most addictive game of 2020 & BEST Samaria game ever created!!...Also NO, this is NOT an Assassins Creed knock off.The only reason I don't give it a 10 is because the camera system can sometimes get out of position. I actually think its higher than a 9. Probably a 9.5 or higher..a true masterpiece
Fantastic game, just what i needed, a break from this world into the fabulous Ghost Of Tsushima. Perfect after the last of us 2 trash. i was beginning to loose hope in video games after that awful game. Thank you Ghost Of Tsushime for showing me how good games can be again. brilliant end to the PS4.
This game is amazing... I can't think of a better samurai game made in the actuality. The technical aspects are, as expected, quite impressive, graphics are wonderful, the atmosphere is captivating.
The most beautiful open world game of all time with the best combat of its genre. The other aspects show a very high standard. The press has failed to appreciate its magnitude.


Played about 13 hours so far loving game the combat is awesome. the world looks amazing and the wife gets to see samurai booty when he goes to the hot spring lol. overall love this game would give it a 10 but not finished it yet will update once i do.
Ghost of Tsushima is not perfect, yet I give it a perfect score. The game is visually stunning, with a beautiful soundtrack, and the minimalist hud, especially during travel is a very smart way to further immerse the player. The best part of the game for many will be its setting and combat system. While not realistic for the exact time period, the game shows wonderfully how Japanese people lived in the middle ages, and presents itself as classic samurai movie come to life. The combat is easy to get used to, but is complex enough to present a constant challenge. Enemies die quickly, but are very aggressive, making this, along with Spider-man PS4, the best combat system I have seen in an open-world game (This one is arguably better). This is occasionally hindered by the camera, but only rarely in my experience. Archery is fun, and an excellent addition to the sword combat. Not much to say, it is challenging but simple. The stealth is...okay. The ai presents little challenge here, and can be cheesed easily. I preferred open combat throughout. The biggest complain professional gaming journalist had was the lack of original elements in the game, but I fail to understand this point. The combat is what makes Ghost of Tsushima unique and fun. Everything else is derivative of other games, but I don't understand why anyone expected the game to reinvent open-world games from the ground up. The game's story is simple, but fitting for a game aiming to be like classic samurai cinema. Jin and the other characters are likable, if a bit overly serious sometimes. There are a few amazing setpieces throughout the main story, as well as some emotional high notes, especially during the end. GoT is a 10 for me. I love Japanese culture and history, and the combat is superb. If you absolutely want to play it as a ninja the game is a 7, or an 8. If you are not interested in the setting it is a 9.
Satisfying combat. Beautiful graphics. Gorgeous environments and love the photo mode. Sadly no PVP. This game does However have many things to do to keep you going for hours. This game is a gem and you’d definitely wanna add it to your collection.

Absolutely gorgeous game. Really fun combat. Side quest are actually a lot of fun, and that's a surprise being that it's a open world game. Highly recommend you buying this one. A great way to end the PS4 generation
Simply the most beautiful and stunning game I have ever played. I love the organic feel of just finding things in the world of tsushima. My only complaint however would be a handful of graphical bugs such as clipping but nothing game breaking.
Llevo unas 25 horas de juego i me esta pareciendo increible tanto jugablemente como su manera de explorar i graficamente aunque es verdad que las texturas fallan lo opacan unos escenarios espectaculares i el mayor fallo de el juego creo que es la IA

This is the best game I’ve played in a long time. It shows us that games don’t always need to LOOK perfect in order to BE perfect. There are some things that could have been better, but only small details that don’t take away any pleasure or immersion you get from the game. Knowing that Suckerpunch isn’t a developer like for example Ubisoft, with tons of money to invest into their game (without actually doing it lol) I can forgive them for the few glitches or other minor flaws the game has. This story and gameplay just reminds me so much of what games used to be like. FUN. Without an agenda, without doing what “should be done” Sure this gameplay has become “old” to some critics. But I love it. For example how they handled the jump system in this game. It actually feels dangerous because you have to aim carefully where you want to go. Instead of pressing one button that takes you anywhere without dying. This makes it less cinematic, than AC’s freerunning system for example. But are looks really everything? It reminds me so much of infamous, but with falling damage. I do wish it actually had more of the infamous freerunning to it. But with falling damage of course. That just makes it feel more dangerous and you don’t press one button all the time like you don’t have a brain. I have played tons of games like this (Assassin’s creed) that were boring af. Same old side quests, same old “climb tower-leap of faith” BS Somehow Ghost of Tsushima is intriguing, and it had everything to do with the story and how they filled the map with sidequests that are fun and innovative. Suckerpunch has never disappointed me with the Sly Cooper or Infamous franchises. Even though they added diversity to their cast, with both female and non-white characters. (Infamous) It never felt forced (like in TLOU2) I hope they continue to create games like this that look and play gorgeous! Would love to see Suckerpunch up there with the big companies. Insomniac did it so why not?

One of the best games available on ps4! Incredible graphics with a great storyline and a interesting world make up to be an amazing, Must Play Experience.



Una Dirección de arte y gráficos increíbles, gameplay y combate excelentes, espectacular banda sonora y diseño de sonido, Historia inmersiva, una aventura superlativa!
Fun game, a bit repetitive but I haven't found myself getting bored yet. Story is engaging, not world beater good, but good enough to keep me interested. The characters are fun, especially a few of the side characters. There are a few things IMO that keep this from being a masterpiece, lack of lock on, unadjustable FOV just to name a few, and there are a few polish issues with clipping, awkward animations, but overall it's a really great game.


Ótimo jogo Sony fechou a geração com chave de ouro. A história é simples e isso torna o jogo divertido. O sistema de progressão de habilidades é intuitivo e bem recompensador. Os gráficos são lindos. As mecânicas tem uma curva de aprendizado tranquila.




Игра которая идеально закрывает экслюзивы. В игре много как и плюсов так и минусов, к плюсам можно отнести сюжет, игровой мир не вероятно интересно исследовать,так же хочется упомянуть истории второстенных персонажей и боевка она меня затянула и хочется сказать о костомизации она прост великолепна. Из минусов. В игре очень скудная боквка с боссами, так же мисси на вычисления куда кто делся, и конечно аванпосты или базы. В заключении хочется сказать,что игра получилось отличным заключением 4 плойки
This game is the best samurai rpg out there! Once again Sucker punch delivers on everything ! One of the most beautiful games I’ve played ! Sorry to say this but if you haven’t played this on a ps4 pro ,On a 4K tv then you have no idea how beautiful it actually is !
Graphically beautiful, great game play, combat is great. Superb story line. Only had game a couple days but already one of the Best games I’ve played.
*Some spoilers The closest game in which can be compared to this game it the Assassin Creed franchises. (the newer games, Origins / Odyssey) but this game is much much more. I feel more connected with the characters. I dont have a problem with how the game progresses. The map does feel empty in some places but overcomes by the details in the small villages. The combat is something which truly feels good to play. Different stances preform better versus different attackers. One thing that took me a while to understand (playing on Hard) is some attackers were extremely difficult to beat, but the whole game pushes you and tells you Samurai need to have patients and not be hack and slash. Once I learned to slow down and let the mongols attack with their chaotic ways I was able to slow down and beat them. Game looks truly amazing (coming from a pc player), Like I was blown away how amazing the game looks. Having to follow the wind instead of using a compass is something different but genius at the same time. My only concern is I truly feel like I am not being a true samurai by being an assassin too. Game 9/10... Some bugs with facial expressions / talking. Some emptiness in the map, and some UI bugs when trying to see new sword/armor kits. Spend money on this masterpiece.
É incrível ver o que o Sucker Punch conseguiu passar da Infamous Series para o Ghost of Tsushima. O jogo está lindo. Minha maior opinião é a ausência de HUD, para que você mergulhe no ambiente, pois o vento é usado para guiá-lo para o seu próximo local. Minha maior reclamação com a maioria dos jogos de mundo aberto é ter que gastar metade do tempo olhando para o minimapa e esse jogo resolve isso maravilhosamente. Além disso, não há controle de nível, onde você não pode lutar contra um inimigo, porque eles estão 30 níveis acima de você. O combate é fluido e realmente satisfatório (jogando duro). Os tempos de carregamento do jogo são de apenas alguns segundos, o que é surpreendente, uma vez que está sendo executado no HDD e em hardware tão antigo. O modo de foto é rico em recursos. A personalização e os encantos são divertidos. Eu sinto que esse é o jogo que todo mundo queria que fosse um Assassin's Creed no Japão. No geral, gostei muito das horas que dediquei a este jogo. Parabéns a Sucker Punch neste ótimo jogo.
Es un gran Juego, posee un fiel recreación del Japón feudal. Los NPC no son genéricos, gran variedad en combate, creo que falta un poco más de expresión en los rostros y una que otra misión secundaria repetitiva. Pero en general es una Joya que debe tenerse, excelente trabajo de sucker punch.
*The game is purely amazing.* Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions.* The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch.* I could go more into detail but I dont think I need to.* You got to play this game.*
Sucker Punch promised to give us an immersive Japanese feudal era Samurai setting and Ghost of Tsushima delivers it spendidly. Japanese pop culture's take on their own Samurai history is an often romanticized version depicted by the legendary movies of Akira Kurosawa and Sucker Punch took great note of them to develop Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks good not because of some realistic graphics but the lack of them: a feudal Japanese island covered every inch by overcolored cherry blossom, maple leaves, etc...Needless to say, Ghost of Tsushima doesn't fail to provide us an exotic traditional Japan. While some stealth elements and improvable A.I are quite spot on in the game, it doesn't hamper the overall gameplay as the majority of the player's community would rather just go the Samurai way and cut down enemies with some awesome Katana finishing moves instead sneaking around like a creep trying to catch some dumb A.I by surprise.
Loved the game asking for a game like this for years. Sword fighting is soo satisfyingly good and the beautiful sceneries are the best I've ever seen in a game.




Cool game there is this dude with a sword and mong holes and they are pretty lame but the dus with the sword stabs them then he gets all sad cause he stabbed them in a different way from the way he was supposed to stab them but it's okay cause then he likes the new way of stabbing them and thinks it's epic, that's pretty much it.
Great game so far. Solid combat and great exploration. Camera can be a PITA at times and have run into a few bugs with NPC's bouncing up and down for no reason but outside of that everything is great. No agenda, no shoved in SJW BS, just great game play with an interesting story. No trying to bash you for what you do in the game like certain other newly released games i did play and finish. Wonderful art direction definitely worth picking up at full price.
Amazing game, will be contending for game of the year I feel and it deserves to be in the conversation with FF7 and potentially Cyber Punk. Unlike another game that released in June.. Thank you Sucker Punch. Well done.

This game is a beautiful, I like the combat system and the screenplay is very good ! I think that everybody should play this game. Good game to everyone
I'm absolutely in love with the environment and graphics of this game. Gameplay is so well made that it never gets old, hats off to developers. From slicing to stabbing and horse riding.. just amaizing. Only negative that I can think of this game is about lip sincing with the voice ( on english ) feels like, as if they talk too fast sometimes. But thats just nitpicking. I usualy dont like protagonists with calm-unintresting personality, but for this game setting, it fits really well. I did not expect to like it so much. Missions are interesting, though there are few missions that could be better. Overall I am really impressed what they did with this game. I really appreciate that Sucker Punch delivered everything they promised to their fans with trailers and gameplay that they showed us. They did not have to lie about their game with fake trailers like other developer team did.
Best samurai game i ever played. Much better game than i expected. Cerita kadang terlalu serius, meski membuat kita bernostalgia ke film - film samurai seperti Yojimbo, Seven Samurai dan RAN.

Ждал игру два года, как минимум ради эстетики средневековой Японии. На деле же игра меня впечатлила гораздо сильнее, чем просто красивой картинкой. Атмосфера и визуал на высоте, но лучше всего здесь исполнена боевая система. Не слешер с закликиванием одной-двух кнопок, а настоящий тактический боевик с самураем в главной роли. Играть советую на максимальной сложности, боевка раскрывается на максимум, и при этом игра все равно не становится хардкорной, приятная сложность (но рефлексы нужны, конечно).
The game has one of the most enthralling world's I have experienced in videogames for a long time. The combat is great, the soundtrack is mind-blowingly incredible and the story serves to glue all of these parts listed above together to make for a truly beautiful experience. The game has its faults in combat with the camera but from my playtime, it's only ever hindered me on a few occasions.

Combat is very addicting, and loving the story so far, the side quest is really interesting too, and the map is beautiful, exploring the map is extremely fun.
Been waiting on this game since it was announced and it's better than i expected. Beautiful game with vibrant colors/detail, good sized open world, and fluid combat. You can easily get distracted going from point A to point B. Even using the photo mode is fun. Personally one of my top 10 games of all time. Deserves to be up there with God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn and The Last of Us (1st one), and Spider-Man. I do however wish you were able to lock on to targets during combat. The camera can sometimes be a bit wonky. Worth picking up. Easy GOTY contender. Cheers and be good to each other
Una joya en todo el sentido de la palabra desde onimusha y tenshu no había jugado un juego que me brindara una sensación parecida deambular por la isla de tsushima es una experiencia única su jugabilidad es excelente y adictiva su sistema de combate es fabuloso y muy atractivo visualmente principalmente si combinas el modo samurai con el modo fantasma sus quest míticos son fabulosos y la historia sin ser la mas compleja cumple de manera excelente que es repetitivo en algunas ocasiones que juego de mundo abierto no lo es en algún momento su música es excelente y cumple de manera fabulosa en este apartado después de haberlo jugado por varias horas solo puedo hacer una cosa y es felicitar a sucker punch por hacer un juego a la altura de los mejores estudios de sony.
excellent game,good aesthetics,mindblowing environment,incredible setpieces,best samurai story in a video game ever ,if you own a ps4/ps4 pro do your self a favour and buy this game and enjoy the incredible kurosawa-esque japanese game
Good game graphics are good could be better overall good fighting is good like the controls for the sword

Absolutely fantastic experience playing through this game. 1. The visuals Absolutely breathtaking vistas and beautifully detailed and textured scenery really draws you I to the experience. There is not even a hint of any errant grain or noise present in the image. The HDR is truly stunning in this game, probably the best implementation of it yet. Especially the colors, they've really gone all out in providing a vivid yet very realistic looking image. 2. The gameplay The gameplay is very enjoyable experience. The combat is really fun. It meets a nice middle ground between not being super tactical and meticulously planned but also more than mash attack and block like the recent Assassin's Creed games. You can plan out your character to be more of a traditional samurai or stealthier guerilla fighter. I was planning to go a ghost sort of playthrough since I saw it in state of play and how I normally play the recent Assassin's Creed games but I've actually found myself gravitating towards the samurai like build. The exploration is really the main treat here allowing you to organically discover places and characters without putting a giant waypoint and minimap on your screen. I really appreciate the more immersive ways if helping you discover your path to your objective. The gameplay isn't perfect however, with some minor gripes. For one, the game employs a sort of soft lock-on system for combat which is pretty good but a more focused option for locking onto a target would have been appreciated. Another small issue I take is in regards to weapon switching. You have the option to change your stances stances in combat with R2 which slows down time and let's you change your stances in safety. Switching your ranged weapons on the other hand is done with the same button that you use to aim with and it's pretty hard to smoothly switch tools in the midst of combat. Ideally, both would be able to be done through the same input. Overall the game has been a fantastic experience through and through and it's a fitting swan song to the end of the PS4 era as The Last of Us 1 was to the PS3.
You just have to play this with a good headset if you have one. The audio is mind-blowing. I originally had no intention of buying this game at release. After watching some reviews by people I trust and respect, I was convinced otherwise. Initially I was super skeptical but upon playing the first 3 hours I'm completely blown away. I won't go into graphical quality since I'm sure there are many other reviews that will say what I already think - it's breathtaking. I actually feel like I'm immersed in the world when I have the headset on and the lights off. I had trouble putting down my controller, I just kept wanting to play more and more. The audio is insanely good too. Combat is also awesome. Not perfect, but the little hiccups in the mechanics weren't enough to pull me out of the immersion of feeling like a badass as I killed enemies with grace and deadly precision. The one thing about the combat that I absolutely love is that you don't get rewarded for button mashing, but rather you have to carefully plot out your plan of attack otherwise you can be slaughtered when swarmed by enemies. Especially when taking on large groups of them, they WILL swarm you and it's pretty terrifying. I think Sucker Punch did a great job making the combat really diverse and interesting. It really feels like every fight you get into is unique from the last depending on the weapons, stances, or tactics(stealth, standoff, etc) you use. And the customization!!! I'm a huge sucker for cosmetics, and it's so fun to collect cosmetics through small quests of following foxes or golden birds, etc. One of the few issues I have with the game is it's pretty obvious that they didn't have much time to put into the smaller side quests, and it shows when you talk to the NPCs as the camera shots are far enough away from the character models so that you can't see their faces (probably to save on animation costs) Not a deal breaker for me though. I can't complain though, when they went above and beyond expectations with the meat and bones of the game, I have no beef really. The thing I'm probably the most saddened by is that the lip syncing with the Japanese audio. I really wanted to play this in Japanese but the lip syncing just didn't really cut it for me :( but the english version is still awesome! Just not what i had wanted primarily. Who am I to complain! Graphical quality is astonishing, audio is simply wondrous, combat is diverse and fun, storyline is great, a few hiccups now and then but overall the game is a real masterpiece.



The game is awesome. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions worth doing like in 'the witcher 3' and main missions with deepness and emotional attachment. The graphics are beautiful altough not high end, the way the graphic are applied its artistic. and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. I could go more into detail but I dont think I need to. You must to play this game.
I love the story, it's characters, the graphics, the combat, and the side missions. being able to create your clothes without buying them is amazing. More game time and more fun. thanks Suckerpunch
Un juego que realmente te ofrece algo nuevo, algo que ningún otro juego te ofreció antes, desde la forma de viaje, hasta la forma de combate, realmente una obra de arte. Una linda forma de despedir la ps4. Felicidades!!!!
I love how the game is fun and beautiful. It's easy to get lost in the huge world and enjoying the scenery. The combat is easy and fun too, especially the stand off, and the assassination is also fun. But what I love most about the game is the absence of SJW agenda.
Шедевр игра, много дополнительных заданий, разнообразный геймплей, 4 стойки для меча, стрельба из лука взята из Horizon zero dawn,хоть графику и занизили немного если сравнить с показом E3 2018, но все равно все красиво выглядит, на пс5 увидим во всей красе.
O jogo é muito bom , uma coisa boa é o sistema de combate é excelente , mas tem um ponto ruim que também é os gráficos e a câmera do personagem que as vezes entra dentro das casas ou algo do tipo quando vc está lutando.
Ghost Of Tsushima is probably Sucker Punch best work to date. While leaving a bit to desire on the graphics, based on its initial pre-release presentation, with unpolished textures and glitches, the game's art assets make its world beautiful and thrilling to explore. However, it does sometimes fall short on providing actual content to the open area. With the main story being on the cliche side of things and with some questionable writing decisions, but still providing very emotional moments, it highlights the secondary quests with much more interesting plot directions and characters. The gameplay and combat overall can feel repetitive, but the RPG systems make up for it. Although my good experience with this game, it doesn't feel like it lives up to the Sony's PS4 last breath on this generation's console games.


So I wont give anything out like I did with that other game we all know about. Keep this short the game is not perfect by no means but it does not suck like many are saying it does so its not a zero nor is it a complete ten. Those who are tired of open world games wont like it unless they get into the combat or get into the story then they will be fine. The reason people like it is uh Samurai duh its not hands down accurate but its not completely off according to Japan. Graphics: 9 ( The environment is Godlike) Gameplay: 8 (Combat and game progress is still good) Replay: 9 (You don't get everything in the first play through) Story: 8 (Its not a dumb revenge plot that alone should give it a 10. The side character actually matter) its only a nine cause I can't give it an 8.5
Fantastic game! Thank you Sucker Punch for not making a mindless button masher. You actually have to pay attention or you'll be dead in no time! The game runs absolutely amazing on my PS4 Pro. Beautiful game!
This is how a game should be. Leave the **** aside, let us have fun. You can see how much soul and understanding what games should be about this company has. I haven't stopped playing since I bought yesterday. There is some few bugs and glitches with the camera and fighting, but I can see them getting better at it. Story is good, caracters are well written and been a samurai is awesome.



Beautiful game, engaging characters and excellent sound. The combat, while not as harsh and deep as a soulsbourne game, it is fun and incredibly smooth. Once you are acclimated to the combat you can easily make unbroken strings of attacks with cinematic animations. It really makes it feel like a samurai movie. Other than the combat most of the systems are used in other games and nothing groundbreaking. That said, they do combine them very well and makes for a very fun gaming experience. The biggest complaint I have in the facial animations/lip syncing. Especially if you are playing with Japanese audio.

The game is fantastic. Open world system works really well with many different landscapes and terrain with a variety of enemies. Skill upgrade system is awesome and the dual nature of the game—whether to fight as samurai or as the ghost—just adds another level. Fantastic exclusive finale to the PS4 system!



Beutifull game. best combat. really nice story.evrything is nice in this game and why 9.My kage died
今年最佳遊戲大賞就是他了 ，那個頑皮什麼狗的，不要再作常弊了，基本上我是不會在網站上評分的，但這次我忍不住來評分了，麻煩大家玩之後再評分，滿滿的日本武士風跟精彩的打鬥場面，有點誇張，但又不會太誇張的主角傳奇，我已經化身惡鬼了，我已經變成境井仁了，我也開始覺得我這樣見蒙古人就砍，真的變戰鬼了，反觀什麼東西2的，還好沒買。（忘了說，二周目打算用黑澤明模式通關）
The game is a polished version of all the open world adventures we had for PS4. Story, Gameplay and Graphics are stunning. A big warm hug to the developers who gave their blood and sweat to create this. Thank you! ❤
Game is good but there's a lot of annoying things in it especially with movement. You get "stuck" a lot on which seems like every platform or plain has an imaginary wall that you have to hit the stick multiple times and gets VERY frustrating. It happens a lot with crawl spaces to. On a technical level it's amazing. Best looking game I've seen and sword play is great . The AI is absolutely terrible on the stealth side. They can't hear **** and can't see past like 10 feet even on hard. It's a good game but not amazing.
is so good I'm love japan the play is good look and feel good in game you guy have to playing this game "
sony wins, game fabuloso entrega redondo todas as mecanicas mais usadas nos rpg de ponta parabéns a Sacker Punch por proporcionar as clientes da playstation essa maravilhosa experiencia
As a person who loves Japanese culture, this game potrays it well. Stunning graphics and waypoint mechanics using the wind as guidance is creative and new. The way they slowly develops the characteristics of Jin into a ghost is perfect, perfect pacing. This game actually makes me wanna go visit Tsushima Island one day. And I will do so.
Beautiful scenery, fairly in depth gameplay. Going to spend a lot of time with this one. If you liked the idea of games like Nioh - but didn't want "literally Darksouls" - then GOS is for you. Highly recommend it.
An amazing game with a lot of content, have mistakes with certain missions or bugs, but in all aspects, the game is full of love for the japanese culture and bring excellent gameplay, side-mission really interesnting and a continue improve of the player and his skills, one of the best games of the year easy.
Amazing open world, best combat i ever seen so far. The game is very fun, the side quests are so good than for a moment you forget about the main story ( amazing either). I like very much the samurai thematic and the representation of feudal japan with her culture. Play this, you don't regret, one the bests of generation

Nenhum jogo é nota vermelha, por mais escroto que seja. Acredito que um 7 seja de bom tamanho. O cara que da nota acima de 8,5 provavelmente nunca jogou um souls like a ponto de zerar, ou nem gastou 1 real nessa porra, (ganhou ou algo do tipo). Vamos falar das coisas que me incomodaram... bugs, pouco polimento, mecânica um pouco travada, combate muito difícil de se entender e acostumar (porem dps de umas horas vc se acostuma com o estilo estranho de combate sem marcação de oponente)... mas isso faz diferença na jogatina? Não!! Mas faz mta diferença quando vc gasta 279 nele, quando vc esperou 7 anos pra jogar... definitivamente o game é jogavel, e bom, mas... (quem pagou não é obrigado a receber um jogo feito as pressas pra fechar um calendário). Indico em uma boa promoção
Comenzaré hablando por lo gráficos, ya que sin duda estamos ante uno de los juegos (junto a The Last of Us part II, Red Dead Redemption 2 y God of War) que mejor explotan el potencial de la consola de Sony. Los paisajes de la Isla de Tsushima son simplemente hermosos, con una paleta de colores muy bien implementada, las luces y las sombras juegan magistralmente durante todo el juego, no puedes estar un rato del juego sin querer poner pausa y entrar a su modo foto y capturar esos Bellisimos paisajes. Sólo en los lugares con nieve la luz y los blancos llegan a molestar un poco, pero nada que nos saque de la inmersión del mundo. Algo que sin duda me han llegado a preguntar es si existe el típico Poping que ataca a la mayoría de los mundos abiertos y puedo decir sin temor a equivocarme que esta falla aunque presente en el juego es muy raro. Los personajes de nuestra aventura estan bien modelados y tienen bastantes detalles, sin embargo noto que sus expresiones faciales están lejos de ser las mejores que haya visto, ya que son muy acartonadas y sin emociones, algo que deberían mejorar y me extraña ya que en InFamous Second Son eran mejores. En cuanto al apartado técnico el juego nos da la opción de jugarlo a 1080p a 30fps en PS4 y 1080p a 60fps o 4K Reescalado a 30fps en PS4 Pro. La Historia de Ghost of Tsushima nos lleva a la invasión Mongola hacia los Japoneses centrándose en la isla de Tsushima, dónde los mongoles acaban con los Samurai, sin embargo es nuestro personaje un sobreviviente y que en busca de venganza es entrenado con técnicas de sigilo, cosa que va en contra de su entrenamiento básico de Samurai, ya que estas técnicas son deshonrosas para él. La historia principal está bien llevada, no se siente que esté acortada o extendida forzosamente, además que hay historias opcionales que te llevarán a locaciones y batallas muy buenas y claro no podían faltar las misiones típicas de los mundos abiertos dónde nuestro personaje es el mandadero de los npc de la isla, pero todos estos favores y misiones extras le darán nuevas habilidades y herramientas a nuestro personaje. En el Sonido, Ghost Of Tsushima es sobresaliente, cada espada chocando, el cabalgar con tu caballo, el soundtrack suena perfectamente y bien implementado en las partes más emocionantes del juego. Pero lo que sin duda es toda una joyita es su doblaje en Japonés, que si quieres una mejor inmersión te recomiendo lo juegues en Japonés con subtitulos en español, sin duda suena perfecto! En el apartado más importante: el Gameplay, sin duda Ghost of Tsushima bebe de muchos otros juegos haciendo que tenga su propio estilo, podemos encontrar mucho de Horizon Zero Dawn, Shadow of Mordor, Sekiro Shadow Die Twice, The Witcher III y claro del más comentado; Assasin's Creed. Dentro del sistema del combate tenemos dos modos de pelea diferentes. El Samurai y el Fantasma. Mientras que como Samurai pelearemos con más honor y los cambates van enfocados en 1 vs 1, siendo la katana el arma que más usaremos en este apartado. Mientras que con el Fantasma usaremos el sigilo principalmente, donde usaremos armas como bombas de humo, arco y flecha, entre otras habilidades. Cabe destacar que ambos sistemas de combates serán altamente mejorables y claro todas las habilidades serán usadas en el juego, así que mejorarlas no será una pérdida de tiempo, ya que para mejorar requieres entrar a las misiones secundarias, que como dije anteriormente no son nada aburridas. Tus reflejos serán una prioridad a la hora de poder pelear, claro dependiendo el modo en el que juegues, que yo te recomiendo empezar en normal y si quieres un reto después jugarlo en difícil, ya que en modo fácil es sumamente fácil y para mi resultó aburrido. Algo que me gustó mucho es que la exploración es un deleite, perderte en la isla es maravilloso ya que sus hermosos paisajes te encantarán y ya estando allí es posible que encuentres algunas misiones míticas. Sin duda Ghost of Tsushima es un juego que no puede faltar en tu biblioteca más si gustas de mundos abiertos y aventuras, su trama es interesante si llegar a ser una obra maestra pero que cumple su función, entretenerte. Mientras que su sonido te dejará maravillado al igual que su hermoso aparato gráfico. Pero sin duda su gameplay es muy bueno obligandote a mejorar constantemente.

The game looks really good. They did not mess up too much with their history or try and spoon in modern politics However being an open world it looks like they took. Few pages from other games in its class. Over all i have enjoyed it


Overall a really amazing game. Great story and a fun fighting style. Some of the animation could look and flow better but visually the game looks great. Kurosawa mode looks insanely great in my opinion. Would definitely recommend this game.
The combat system is amazing, and it's probably the most beautiful game out there. Story is great, side missions are fun and rewarding... Can't find much wrong with this yet. Must play
The game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. .You got to play this game.

Ghost of Tsushima at its core is a fun and enjoyable game. In my opinion, though it's far from perfect. Pros- 1. The gameplay is smooth and fun. 2) The open world is beautiful and deserves to be explored. 3) The side quests are a lot of fun leaving room for extra playtime after the main story is completed. Now for the Cons- In my opinion the story is average and generic with no memorable characters. They had a chance to make Jin one of their iconic levels characters like Kratos, Nathan Drake, Ellie, and Aloy but they just missed the mark. I also think they should've taken the time to make the Japanese dialogue be able to match up with the lips. I've seen other sony studios put extreme detail in their games that I can't help but think that sucker punch was a little lazy keeping that out. While the environmental graphics look good, the facial animations are a step down from the competition. Lastly and probably my biggest complaint is the bugs and really dumb AI. The game, for the most part, was smooth but there were multiple times in combat that AI bugged out or my horse got bugged while riding it. I also couldn't help but feel the AI enemies were some of the dumbest ones I had seen in recent years and it made the game easier in certain parts. My Final thoughts are that this is a good game that I would recommend someone playing at a discounted price. To me as the quality of PS4 exclusives go this is about a little bit better than Days Gone. (And I know some people loved Days Gone) But it's not something I'm dying to see more of and would prefer to see a new infamous or sly cooper from Sucker Punch next.
It's not below a 9/10. If you're reading the 0/10 reviews you are feeding the trolls. The game is stunning to look at, fun to play and a joy to explore. The camera can get a bit wonky during combat but it's tolerable. 20hrs in and barely scratched the surface. If you like open world games then step right up. You will not regret it.
This review comes from someone who has played the game for at least 6 hours. It is not done so this is just a review of what I have seen so far. I would like to start with the visuals. Everything from the weather in the background to the leaves falling from the sky are well done. There is such a beautiful representation of Japan with the graphics. From the bright colors of the flowers to the darker grays of the night sky, it truly is astonishing what had been done. The accuracy in the game play itself is pretty well done. From the way the blades are held to the strikes are the proper way to use the katanas and tantos both. To some the storyline might seem linear but the wide range of choices and ways to do things opens things up and gives the player many choices of which missions to do, when and how to do them. Some people can complain about the emotions in the game but the story behind the reasons is there for anyone who takes time to play the game. It is explained. The fighting reminds me a bit of a mix between the Arkham series and Dark Souls series. There are great choices in being able to change things mid fight. Keeps things interesting and never stops the action. There is something very visceral about this game and that is what is so good about it. It keeps it real. There are so many more things I could say about this game but suffice it to say that everyone should try this game. The hype is very real. I would be surprised if this game does not get Game of the Year. It would be well deserved.
Great game. I liked it from the very beginning of the main character's story. A well-crafted story, with good twists and turns. There is something to be sad about, and maybe even cry about. There is something to be very happy about. A large number of emotions are experienced during the passage. The story will not leave anyone indifferent, and the upcoming choice will reveal your essence. Of great interest are the stories of individual, significant characters, whose confidence and determination increases with each new feat of the main character. A beautiful, detailed world with a detailed, cinematic environment that conveys the atmosphere of the game. Beautiful armor and its color, weapons are deadly in all images. Many tools of the Ghost and various techniques, all this is an integral, beautiful, presentable part of the game, for which it is not a pity to give money

How i describe this game to my friends is its basically all the best parts of red dead 2 and assassins creed with a samurai movie twist on it. I can't get over how GOOD this game looks i mean I can barely progress because I take my time with the scenery and stop to take screen shots at every new vista. This is a great theme for me I really love media themed around historical times in japan. For me this was the very best game to end the era of PS4. Kudos to Suckerpunch for such a good job I can't think of anything bad to say so its a 10 for me.


One of the best & beautiful open world Games... And the best Samurai game evr Jin as a character is deep and his emotions are resonating with the player Also a good chunk of believable characters .. Good side stories as well as side activities that reflect the Japanese culture
El mejor juego que existe inspirado en japon, el sistema de combate es buenisimo, las historia fantastica y cada uno de sus escenarios es simplemente una obra de arte


Recuerdo tener dudas de si comprar este juego o no al final me decidí por adquirirlo no miento desde que supe de el tenía un poco de interes pero ahora que lo estoy jugando tengo que decirlo es una maravilla gráficamente es arte pura no tiene texturas 4k ni nada de eso pero el diseño artístico es de otro mundo sus campos abiertos llenos de vegetación flores ciervos osos mariposas etc es una maravilla (usaras mucho el modo foto) la isla de tsushima te puede parecer pequeña cuando la miras desde el menu de mapa pero no tardas ni 1 hora en darte cuenta de lo gigantesca que es el prólogo del juegote atrapa y no te te hace sentir que la aventura sera épica el combate es una pieza fundamental en este juego al igual que una katana lo es para un samurai la camara suele ser molesta al principio ya a que no contamos con fijado automático pero solo molesta la primera horamas o menos luego te acostumbras por completó la música es muy recurrentes y estan buena que ni te das cuenta de que esta allí por que al combinarse con el entorno vivo y el momento de recorrerlo se hace 1 con el es importante que diga que aúnque el juego te da lasindicaciones de que debes hacer tu eres quien eliges como y cuando tienes completa autoridad sobre la historia eso es bueno en fin aquí le dejo su merecido 9 pensaba darle un 8 pero es que mientras más lo juego mas voy enamorandome de el espero que lo disfrutes igual o más que yo
Breath taking visuals, surprisingly deep and challenging combat (assuming you don’t play stealth) and a well written (and voice acted) story. Perfect send off for the PS4 exclusive lineup.
I wasn’t sure what to expect, but I needed something less dark/annoying than The Last of Us 2. This game delivered in spades. You can definitely see some core similarities to the Infamous Second Son type of gameplay, but it works for the samurai setting. The ability to embrace stealth, honorable confrontation, or a very explosive play style is well done. I can’t wait to see how my character evolves over the course of his journey.

Simply amazing, the details, culture, the missions, the weapons, story, how the tales of the armor, bows are told are just amazing and if you play the game in the hardest difficult you will feel that not only the 1 vs 1 duels are intensified the enemies are deadly, if you lose the focus you can be killed by anyone, no matter how strong you are. All the gamers that love samurai stuff I strongly recommend it, the game have good mechanics the camera can bother you at the beginning but you will get used to it Wish you all good luck and hope you can try this game.


GoT is everything you would expect from an open world game, plenty on content without the need of spending more money, many hours of fun and amazing combat mechanics, the wind guide, it is just amazing.
In addition to the great graphics, this game has a sense of the diligence of the developers in the smallest detail. So far, the main contender for the title "Game of the Year".
This game is absolute what I was looking for literally I cannot stop playing the combat is amazing the open world and graphics are stunning the soundtracks are absolutely beautiful I'm really thankful for the developers of this game and I will support them always please keep this work because I loved it so much I'm doing everything in this game every nock and cranny sometimes I feel I want to cry just because how the game is beautiful


El juego es puramente asombroso Es sorprendente ver lo que Sucker Punch ha logrado al pasar de la serie Infamous a Ghost of Tsushima La historia y los golpes de muerte parecen películas clásicas de Japón
Ghost of Tsushima is definitely an excellent game with an amazing openworld experience, a nice and fluid gameplay that will make want to play it every day, rememberable characters and a good story. Of course the game has it's flaws and bugs (that at least with me, were not many) but the gane is still a masterpiece.

Pros : Combat RPG Graphics Ambiance Cool game Cons : You sometime retrieve some of the elements and tricks that are becoming boring in open world (Like "I will help you only if you help do a serie a secondary quests with a borderline quality story") But, because the combat is cool, you just want to sushified every last of them anyway

Omg! I am much addicted to this. Every time I admire scenery whenever I travel to different location. All actions, gameplay is so smooth. Damn PS is best ever, thanks for giving this masterpiece.
Admittedly, I'm only about 12 hours into this game so far, but I am absolutely loving it! First off, the graphics are outstanding! This is a beautiful game! I don't mind exploring every bit of the map because of the world that's been created here. Just outstanding! Secondly, the story is really good. I love the characters and story so far. Lastly, my only negative thought about this game, is that the camera can become a suprise boss at times! The camera can get a bit wacky (especially if you find yourself fighting inside of a place). Other than that, this game is amazing and I'm having a blast while playing it!
Been playing this game for more than 25 Hours now(hope meta is reading this), absolutely stunning, combat will make you feel like a samurai, it does not have target lock, but the camera is done so well that you dont need it. Skills, Armour and weapon upgrade are good and worth it. Its not like your usual RPG where they show how much xp you need to level up, very intelligently done. This game looks like painting, words cannot be expressed how beautiful the game looks. Tons of open world exploration along with activities.
Jogo excepcionalmente lindo, tudo e muito fantástico, a câmera do game no início e um pouco exótica, mas com muito pouco tempo você acostuma com a gameplay e o jogo se mostra sensacional!!
I love the story. I love the gameplay and most of all i love the visuals. It’s such an amazing game and i could play games like this all day. Not only are the main mission entertaining but also the side missions as they make sense. This game is packed with action, beautiful views and superb writing.
First of all I am playing on hard since the release start straight with 6 hours sleep per day(Took a day off^^) so I am now around 50 hours in total gameplay. Sucker Punch did a amazing job with this game. In my opinion they can be compared to Witcher 3 from CD Project Red. Graphic 10/10 Sidequest 10/10 Sound 10/ 10. Fighting System is 9/10 (just because its kinda hard to get the timing perfect) Animation 10/10 Story 10/10 Reply value? Hell yeah I really hope for a new game plus. Just don't use fast travel and the game is 100 hours plus for sure. Its the first game where I dont use any fast travel and I think I am around 35 % now. The Sidemissions are incredible good writen and they really can give you this empathy moments even for NPCs. Every encounter with an enemy feels epic and not repetitive at all. The world it self has so many nice visuals its incedible for a Ps4 to handle that without getting to loud like in other latest games. If you like Assains Creed,Samurai and Ninja games get this game you don't gonna be disappointed. Its like Asssains Creed has a child with Tenchu but with actual a good fighting system. The fighting is just incredible you can take out a whole army with your skills and its feels so dam awesome when you win the fight. Especially the duels...dont wanna spoiler just epic I really hope Sucker Punch will be successful with this game! GAME OF THE YEAR
One of the generations best games and a must play. Aside from the amazing graphics, where this game shines is it’s combat. The sword mechanics are some of the best I’ve seen and very fluid. It requires you to be a bit tactical so button mashing will just get you killed quickly. However, the enemy stealth AI can be dumb and easy to exploit. You can be picking apart enemies from a far with a bow and the AI just won’t know what to do. This isn’t game breaking but definitely needs some improvement. The story is good, cutscenes are really well made and the open world is fun to explore with a great deal of immersion. Overall, if you have a PS4, you need to play this game. 9/10

I bought the Physical copy when it came ou. I played almost over half the game. I really enjoy playing and trying to drag out the game play in preperation for our new duely awaited Consoles to come out. I love true story of our history in the worl. Maybe its not all accurate but its loved by the Japanese culture which says alot. Love the colors of folage and the battles. It is not A Woke game which is even better. Keep it origional. Thanks SuckerPunch. Hope you can develop this game for the PS5.
I love the ambiance of this game. Specially the sound the effects in the environment, the lights are perfect not to mention the gameplay of this almost perfect i really like it, i am really happy that i buy this game. Totally recomend it to my friend
I have purchased so many games in search of something. I really love Horizon Zero Dawn, Days Gone, and the Witcher 3. Those three games at the end left me wanting to play them again, which I have. I have been searching for a game like these ones and I have found it. This game offers a fresh approach to combat and open-world game play. If you’re on the fence, don’t be. This game is worth every single penny.


Una verdadera obra de arte, el juego mejora cada vez más, es hermoso su mundo y la inmersión del gameplay es exquisita pero tiene sus fallos minimos, como la camara cuando se combate, se pierde mucho y en mi caso arruina un poco la experiencia, por eso no le pongo mas nota, es un juegazo,el fantasma ataca

The most fun I had with a game since god of war released the graphics in this game is outstanding, it would make you wonder if it is that grat at ps4 what we are going to see at next gen consoles.
Ghost of Tsushima gets nearly everything right for an open world game. The story is an average story but told well. The environments are amoung the most beautiful I have seen in an open world game. The side content is extremely engaging, with story attraction similar to the Whitcher 3. The combat seems aimple at first but really opens up and becomes more technical as the game goes on. This is definitely a game that you should try of you are interest in Japanese lore and the Samurai.
Best open world game I have played in a long time. The artistic design is fabulous. The combat is addicting. I love following the wind. Game of the year for me.
Played for 9 hours. It has been awhile since I've played a game this long, I've done tons sidequests and main tale stuffs and I'm not even halfway through yet! Good job Sucker Punch!
Gameplay is smooth and engaging. The overall design and audio are also incredible. Love the different style modes you can play in. Definitely recommend!


This game is beautiful, for nice graphics and intensive gameplay...........
What a game. Visuals. Gameplay. Level design. Story. Music. Remarkable. This game is a gem. Everything feels fresh. Sandbox made fresh and engaging. True masterpiece. This 2020 belongs to tsushima. Not to that bad joke a month ago. This is a palate cleanser. A masterwork one.
One of the best open world games I’ve ever played. With combat that is for me, as good as games such as sekiro, and nioh. It’s the perfect samurai action game. And even has stealth elements should you do choose. The scenery is the most beautiful of any game I’ve ever played and the open world is the most immersive open world ever. Buy. This. Game.
Alert everyone: Dont trust every negative scores cause the game is review bombed the last of us 2 fans because this is probably gonna win the game of the year. Dont trust me?? Just search on youtube about user review of GoT and review bombing by Tlou2 fans. There are videos with proof showing why it is review bombed. My review: Can't believe I actually created an account just to rate this game. Infact I never expected that I would even rate any game in my life. But damn, this game got me real good. I have never expected that an open world game could be as good as this. Out of all open world games, this is the best open world game I have played.The graphics are artistic and make it actually feel like you are in Tsushima. Every 20 min I stop at a place and be like, woah...gotta open photo mode!!!!Also I really like how they removed mini map by adding wind mechanism and it is extremely helpful in immersion in this beautiful world!!! I see a lot of people complaining about combat and saying its boring, as far as I know they are the people who look at the gameplay and be like,"what's so special about it? completely normal sword fights, so booring". I am telling you the combat feels satisfying asf when you play it rather than looking at it and be like there is nothing special about it. Japanese voice acting nailed it, but the mouth sync is completely off which threw me away a few times. Sometimes cut scenes feel like they are from a old 2000's game. But overall the good factors in the game made me not to worry about all these cons. Few say that the open world gets repetitive. Well they are the people who play complete story at one or complete side quests at once. If Main quests and side quests are played simultaneously, the game will be really really good. I enjoyed it a lot and would highly recommend this game to any gamer who see a really really good open world adventure.


A couple weird animations here and there, but nothing game breaking. Absolutely fantastic game, with great combat, awesome customization, and a solid story. Great job, SuckerPunch studios.
Wow. STUNNING visuals... just incredible. If I was Japanese, I would be impressed and proud with how Sucker Punch brought the Samurai and country to life. Great sound! Great immersion.
Wonderful game I had ever played it always in the top5 of my collection story was good and samurai theme was so awesome which gives me good experience Fighting and cut scenes were good End was so emotional even we get some choices Game make me to feel like samurai

Awesome just awesome I have an even beat the game yet and let me tell you it is definitely worth the money unlike lou2 which I just got done playing this is definitely a breath of fresh air thank God for sucker punch

Honestly, if ya wanna game of epic combat, great scenery, great characters, decent storyline, awesome mobilization and open maps, this is the way to go. Unlike other big brand co. games(TLOU II T-T') this is worth every cent. While the combat is a bit challenging at first the reward is oh so satisfying once ya nail it. Oh yeah and actually really enjoyed the artwork for this it's pretty interesting to look at and the detail that they put to every weapon in game. Since I'm still a student it's awesome to have some knowledge on the moguls come up in a game and know some bits here and there. Also the characters are lovable btw very important even the villains, as they should be. (BE WARNED, THE bad reviews are salty TLOU fans review bombing this masterpiece don't let em fool you! This is actually a GOOD GAME ;^; Ik it's sad to have to point this out but I do)

The game is amazing. Plot is definitely better than tlou2. Game mechanics nice, battle system is great, cool side quests. Graphics also nice, but there is some character animation issues, that looks bad. Anyway this game totally worth to buy and try it.
its really good game bruh. Would totally recommend. It has really cool mechanics and story and overall its a good game thats really good and i would totally recommend

BEST SAMURAI GAME!!! To those who keep on ranting that this game is another generic open game and never did any outstanding new revolutionary crap on opengames, let me tell you that this game never wanted to become a technical masterpiece, instead they focused on giving the best samurai experience to the video games medium that is never felt by thisgeneration. It is the best homage to classical samurai films and the biggest ASMR inducer in any games. The sound of chopping and slashing is reminiscent to demon slayer anime and this is more immersive than any other game this year. Best way to cap the end of the genration of Ps4.
Отличная графика,интересный сюжет и полочные задания!Классная боевая система!За 15 часов игры не встретил ни одного бага!Хорошая русская локализация!Очень атмосферная игра!
Нет времени расписывать большой обзор. Вкратце: боевка хороша, не без гемора с камерой. Сюжет отличный особенно зайдет тем кто любит вестерна и старые и не очень фильмы о самурая. Дизайн природы и мира в целом вот 10 из 10 на кончиках пальцах, без Превелиучения. Сайд квесты хорошо проработаны. Они крутятся не вокруг геймлейной части а вокруг истории персонажей что и делал ведьмак в свое время.

Finally, a decent game in 2020 in what has been a horrible year for games and overall so far. TLOU2 being a massive disappointment was the cherry on top.


The game is visually stunning with a unique photo mode unlike any other. It has one of the most satisfying combat on par with God of war. Exploration in this masterpiece is unlike another, with a acceptable amount of activities and collectibles on the map. Players who explore will be rewarded with unique weapon skins and ability upgrades, it also allows the player to simply ease through the story with no level cap after completing a mission. This is a must play for anyone and easily game of the year 2020.



Breathtaking experience absolutely must have game. The art of this game is mind blowing Sony went out with a bang for the end of the ps4 lifecycle. Game of the year for me. Easily no brainer just get the game and experience the truly awesome experience.
Incredible game! Takes the overly saturated open world genre and blows it away by doing the impossible. Unlike other open world games, Ghost of Tsushima does an amazing job at telling a strong and emotional story while giving the player the ability to set the pace. With 24 main story missions and countless more side quests, tales, and activities: not once will you feel like you're straying too far away from the over arching storyline. Every upgrade feels powerful, but never overpowered. Every side quest has meaning. Every character has a an important role. The gameplay is fun and exciting. The world is beautiful and rich with stories to be told. If you're looking to satisfy an itch for classic, stereotypical samurai action - in a vast and thematically deep world - this is the game to play.


After playing video games for 15 years now I finally feel myself as the hero of blockbuster movie . This game makes my dream come true. It is fruition. My best game among 100 played games .
A game of exceptional quality, though it suffers from the open world disease of littering the map with repetitive side attractions and collectibles. The mechanics resemble the older Assassin's Creed games, though enemies in open combat do not go down in one hit. The stance system is, in my opinion, the single best innovation this game has to offer. With four stances to choose from, you have a total of 12 different basic combat moves. Held heavy attacks, for example, can become stabs, roundhouse kicks, a flurry of slashes, or whirlwind aoe swings. And that's before getting into special moves and counters. Choosing the right stance to counter your current enemy allows this game to avoid the same level of mindless button-mashing that makes similar games go stale. Stealth-wise, there's the typical half-blind enemies that take all of five seconds to spot you, and somehow are unable to see a man in black robes hidden in a field of white flowers. Enemies in stealth are more vigilant than in other games. I was caught off guard by how enemies would group up and one would always be walking backwards while patrolling during their period of elevated awareness. It's a shame that there are no guard archetypes that can ignore lures and will remain at their post, forcing you to kill them on that spot or engage them in combat. (8/10) The individual storylines and elements in this game are not innovative or original, but the game makes up for it by tying them together into a nice coherent greater story. As a game set historically in ancient Japan, it takes some artistic liberties, but is mostly respectful of that culture and set of values. There is no shoehorning in of modern politics to ruin it. (7/10) Visually and aurally, the game is truly spectacular. There are some texturing issues that crop up, but the game presents stunning scenery and great sound effects that are wholly appropriate for this game. I did run into a gigantic framerate and game speed drop during one boss fight, though my PS4 had been running for two days. There are some physics glitches that occurred, but these are far and few between. (8/10) Base Score (7.7/10) Additional Factors: It is a decent highly polished single-player only experience. With no microtransactions. Or a season pass or extra DLC. This is a complete game, released as a complete game, with no **** That alone is worth an extra point on the review score. Historically, some things are wrong. Katana did not exist at the time period of the game, the samurai armor is not period accurate, and the japanese is MODERN japanese. But these are artistic liberties taken for understandable reasons, and they do not detract from the gaming experience. Final score: (9/10), rounded up from 8.7/10 My rubric: 0/10: Unfinished. I never give credit for unfinished work. 1/10: Alpha. Severely Broken. There was an attempt, but that's all that can be said. 2/10: Beta. Major improvements needed, but at least the game is beyond the conceptual stage. 3/10: Broken. Some work is required to optimize and fix the technical issues. 4/10: Unimpressive. Falls below expectations, but otherwise a functional game. 5/10: Average. On par with other games of its bracket. No more. No less. 6/10: Novel. There are a few aspects that are different from others of its kind. 7/10: Exceptional. Significantly better than the average game. 8/10: Stand-out. Truly innovative mechanics/story, very high quality. 9/10: Masterpiece. Very few flaws. Minimal improvements can be made to this game. 10/10: Perfection. Actually, literally perfect. Zero flaws. Also impossible.
Solid 9. Beautiful world. Good and a grounded story. 9 Cause while the world is breathtaking character models are not. Some fetch quests can be repetitive(like to do this you have to bring him in for him to come you have to talk to some other guy, that guy will only help if you help him find some other guy). While combat is great AI is sub-par. 9 not good enough for 10.
Franchement juste whaooooo, la claque visuel que j'ai pris , c'est le jeux qui me fait arrêter le plus souvent pour contempler les paysages de toute beauté, les combats jouissive à souhait, le scénario ne réinvente rien mais tiens la route , l'exploitation et superbe, on adore s'y perde et ce promener, rien que pour jouer un samouraï tellement bien reproduit avec leurs codes et..... sur ps5 il va etre monstrueux franchement, très propre, on s'amuse, un must a avoir

Gameplay is amazing story so amazing graphics look amazing just overall a great game this is how a game should be no agenda no bs tlou2 fanboys are weezing that this game is stealing its light for game of the year just wait till cyberpunk2077 drops lol
Отлично переданная эпоха Самураев. Шикарная боевка. Кому зашел Хорайзон или просто нравится сеттинг Японии и Самураев - однозначно брать!
This game is a blast, the side missions are all fun & the world is a painting, everywhere you look is just jaw-droppingly beautiful, I'm not eve close to the end, I keep doing side missions, following birds & foxes, putting new hats on, letting the wind guide me, etc Once I finish I'll go back to this review, but this game is worth it, when I'm not playing it I'm thinking about it, when I'm playing it I catch myself just looking around the beautiful world. I'm close to a 9, but we'll see where the story and gameplay plays out once I unlocked more abilites.
What makes a game 10/10? Not perfection because every game has its flaws. Then what? If the game is addictive, and you cannot put it down, then it is in this category. GoT gives so much fun and satisfaction that it is really hard to put down, so it is this kind of game. In the recent years I had two favourites: God of War 4 and RDR2, but GoT now is the third. Addictive because of: - the combat system (start with minimal techniques and tools, gives depth gradually) - the graphics is not as detailed as in RdR2, but Sucker Punch found an artistic approach (beatiful colors, particles, smoke, mist, sunrays, flowers and trees) that gives an astonishing result overall. It is an artistic masterpiece without a doubt - the story is a real Samurai story with genuine characters (no politics pushed in any way) - Jin is a likeable character who tries to live based on a moral code, saving the Island and Japan - if you play it on hard it gives more satisfaction, especially the duels - the side quests are really good (there is a lot) and some of them reward you well (eg mythical movements) - There are real strong likable women characters in the game (Yuna, Lady Masako Adachi) - a lot of professional reviewers pointed out that the camera is off... this is true, BUT it gives a freedom to you as you can rotate it freely and therefore you can decide from what POV would you like to check the enemies (sometimes they close round so a fixed camera would be disadvantegous IMO) - the guiding wind was a fantastic idea, works really well - it is subjective but I like the HUD-less screen... the environment is breathtaking so why we need to put anything else on the screen? Compared to RDR2 there are some details that I missed in the first hours then I realized that in this world they are not missing at all. This game do not want you to be a hunter (even though you can hunt down animals), nor be a diver, fisherman and a lot other things as you are a Samurai so they focused on the Japanese culture (even though culture from the 16th - 18th century so from a later period), how to be a master Swordsman and how to find the way of a Ninja (aka Shinobi), while you progress in the story Some bugs that need to be addressed: - rarely the horse’s front legs can stand on a tree or on a bigger rock - the AI should be better (mongols are running back if they leave their territory, even if they try to chase you; sometimes they do not observe you from the watchtower, even if you kill everybody in the fortress/village cause they do not hear you; the deers should run away, but sometimes they run into you instead) - the villagers should sleep at night, but some of them instead work on the fields(?) These are not annoying problems as the addictive parts compensate them easily, but fixing these and similar minor things would give even better satisfaction IMO. I think Sucker Punch will release some patches later and some of these minor flaws might be fixed. I will replay it a couple of times, once on PS5 definitely (60 fps and higher resolution would make this even more breathtaking)

10/10. This game is beyond amazing. Combat, Open World doesnt feel big and empty, the scenery is beautiful almost everywhere on the island, the musical score is hands down one of the best ive ever experienced. It draws inspiration from other games like Sekiro, HZD and Assasins Creed, but it has so much original flair and style its hard for me to put it down. One of my favorites of 2020, my pick for GOTY, and possibly the most beautiful game I've EVER played. Hats off to Sucker Punch!!


Absolutly in love with this game! The story is spot on , the historical landmarks, battles etc are breathtaking and oh did I mention Mongolian throat singing? I've ran into a few glitches or quirks here and there but the gameplay and storytelling definitly justifies it. Can not wait to see what else suckerpunch has to bring to the table!

Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing game. The environment is breathtaking giving me a sense of wonder and encouraging me to explore. Running around slicing and dicing my way through mongols and bandits is something i never thought i wanted but being into historical set games and media i knew this game was a must buy from the start. But there is short comings in the game one being no new game+ to is after you master the combat in the first act of the game a fighting becomes too easy making not feel tension in the battle i think adding a harder difficulty can improve that i dont want to discuss the story because its too early but it was great in my opinion.
I was a bit skeptical on the fighting mechanics thinking it was going to be a button mash, man was I proven wrong with the multiple different stances, unlockable attacks, Amazing graphics and mini games, composing haikus, cutting bamboo etc. Only minor flaw was that the cinematic trailer from 2018 made it seemed to be extremely immersive and have you hooked, just a bit let down from it. Other than that AMAZING GAME

The beat gaming experience I've had since God of War. It's a game that brought me back to why I enjoy this genre. You get lost in the world. You really feel like you are Lord Jin. It feels fresh and next gen. Only issues I've had are the no lock system (which im okay with) and the stealth is meh compared to the other great features of the game. It's a must buy for anyone. It's It feels lile your constantly either in a movie of a painting. Have you ever felt like you're in a living painting. Well this is your chance to feel that. BUY IT!
EDIT: I finished it. And I'm not to ashamed to admit that I cried. This game is fantastic. Haven't had this feel and joy in a long while. Thank you Sucker Punch There is nothing I can write here that probably already hasn`t been said. But I also wanna hit on a few KEY FEATURES that I think are maybe overlooked: 1* THE LOADING TIMES are extremly fast. You get the sucker punch logo when you boot up. Then you can continue, and it loads this game in very very fast. I`m talking less then 20 seconds. Personally I just find this fantastic. 2* THE FAST TRAVEL again, is extremly fast...you can fast travel and depending on the location it can take as little as 5-8 seconds. This game is so well optimized. 3* CONTROLS are just excellent. The combat is extremly fluid and you can really tell they put a lot of effort into this combat mechanic. Fan-funcking-tastic! 4* LITTLE TO NO BUGS, maybe I just got lucky...but I have ran into almost NO bugs. Sure sure...I have seen some clipping and even I got stuck between a building and a stone wall this one time, but the game automaticlly resets your potions when you "FLOAT" for more than 10 seconds. Excellent. 5* THE SOUNDTRACK...now, usualy I `m not one who cares much about music in a game, but I actually listened to this games soundtracks while I was working and doing study. So relaxing. 6* THE VALUE. I got this game on release date and I have been playing (Almost) the entire weekend.I have gotten at least 20-25 hours in and I only just last night cleared the first Island. There is so much content here...this game truly is WORTH the €60-70 bucks. SUPPORT DEVELOPERS LIKE THIS AND GREAT GAMES LIKE THIS AND GIVE YOUR HARD EARNED MONEY TO THESE PEOPLE! DO NOT WAIT FOR SALE, AND BUY THIS! You, will, NOT, regret !
Очень атмосферная игра и как же хорошо что тут нет этой ереси как


I was waiting for ghost of Tsushima forever, much longer than LoUP2. I am not over exaggerating when I say this game the best blade combat in any game I ever played. Every battle is thoroughly tactical and enjoyable. And the enemies are NOT damage sponge dummies , the enemies get harder by fighting better, your blade is just as deadly in hard mode as it is in easy mode, but in hard mode you have to learn how to use your tactics and head in battle to overcome the enemy. Gorgeous game. Will play it over and over . 10/10. Thank you sucker Punch!!!
I beat the game, and stand by my 10, beautiful emotional game, great story, great characters, great music, great environment/settings, unlike a game I won't name, I actually felt for the characters in this story, absolutely epic game that I plan to replay to see the other ending choice, Kurosawa mode is beautiful, 100% recommend playing this game, it's got my vote for being game of the year and I'll be looking forward to the future games from suckerpunch.
So far this game is probably GOTY, if Cyberpunk doesn’t blow us away, this is a dope game if ur into samurai or Japanese culture, it’s like a assassins creed Japan but better. It has it flaws but I think the good outweighs the bad in this game. Definitely recommend this.

I had my doubts about yet another open world game, just with a different coat of paint, but GOT is more than just a different skin. It must be hard to take the genre of open world games and come up with something that feels fresh while still following the usual formula. Ghost of Tsushima is the best of this genre I have played in the last 15 years. I hate games that hold your hand and have 200 icons on the screen, this game uses the wind to tell you where to go, a simple yet clever mechanic. The combat is not hard and not easy it is balanced perfectly while being fun. I am only into the 2nd act of 3, and I am not bored. The story is good, the side quests are better than the norm and the environment is very detailed and doesn't feel like it has been copy pasted. I believe there are over 40 biomes, and the way they blend/transition into one another is very well done. The game also lets you play how you want to, you can be sneaky or full on kamikaze mode. If you have been bored with Assassins Creed games, but like open world style, give this a go.
Excellent graphics, and features like the Kurosawa mode, navigation via the wind aid in immersion of the whole samurai experience. The best feature however is the lack of any form of micro-transactions, ads or pay to win upgrades that are spoiling gaming experience these days, especially in AAA titles where you are paying upfront to buy the 'complete' game. Your own Samurai adventure! Must buy, highly recommended. ⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐
The game graphics is outstanding, you feel like a real samurai playing it especially with fight stances and even the side missions Feels like a main story and you get attached to the characters. There are a lot of amazing stuff the game have that I didn’t mention. Can’t stop playing it.

Absolutely loving this game! After the nightmare that was TLOU 2. It's nice to have a game that doesn't disrespect it's characters or it's players. First of all the game is stunning looking, with an insane draw distance! To me this is the best looking open world game. This game is about stopping and smelling the roses, viewing the incredible sights, and being a badass samurai. Combat is so fun. Play this game! Always loved Sucker Punch but this game moves them into the top tier of game development! Forget the lazy reviews that say this is nothing more than an AC clone. Nonsense this game has a ton of original features. I can't wait to see how a Ps5 patch will make this game shine even more. I can only imagine what a Ps5 sequel would look like! Buy this game! Support quality!

О хороших играх говорят мало, но сказать что-то свое - необходимо. Эта игра проста, здесь нет никакой "серой морали", нет повестки, нет индийского сюжета. Здесь все банально просто. Тру-японцы против орды монголов. Законы бытия, на которых держится Призрак: недурно прописанные персонажи, нетривиальный сюжет, ошеломительный визуал вкупе с приятной и эффектной боевкой, заставляющий дрожать от восторга саундтрек. Рекомендую играть исключительно с японской озвучкой и включенным режимом "Куросава" в настройках экрана. Про высокую сложность тоже не забывайте! А вообще, завершающий эксклюзив PS4 по своим механикам дико похож на безупречено доработанный старый добрый Assassin's Creed. Тот самый Assassin's Creed, который мы любим, а не MMO RPG с уклоном в псевдомифиологию. Из минусов: пустой открытый мир и плохая режиссерская работа над кат-сценами для побочных квестов. Я люблю эту игру точно так же, как Самурай бережет свою катану. 8/10

Ótimo jogo! Lindos gráficos e trilha sonora, com bastante exploração e batalhas divertidas. Vale lembrar que não é um jogo japonês, mas uma homenagem ocidental ao "cinema samurai" composto por filmes clássicos antigos. Não é um jogo perfeito, mas muitos dos seus defeitos possivelmente serão corrigidos em futuros patches.
Like old-school assassin's creed, but actually good. Love it. Exploration is amazing, combat is good, stealth is basic. Visually it's 10/10 becose of the art derection. Yeah, a good game overall. Didn't enjoy infamous second son, but that game is making my pp go hard
Probably the most beautiful game ever made. From the fantastic, precise gameplay, the incredible sound design and music, to the most beautiful landscapes and scenarios ever put to videogame. This game deserves nothing less than a perfect score. Even the extremely rare graphical bugs do not deter it from deserving a 10/10. A masterpiece.
Gioco molto più giocato e meno scriptato dell'attuale generazione. Ha un level design abbastanza tradizionale, ma il combat system è molto divertente e l'open world ispirato ed affascinante. Mi è piaciuto tantissimo.

An amazing game, full of wonderful little details, touching side quests and a brilliant story. The game is pretty, with awesome vistas (reminds me of Horizon: Zero Dawn). The combat is fun, with lots of different moves to master against a large range of enemy types. Have only played as a hidden Ghost rather than a fully honourable Samurai, and its great fun figuring out the best ways to get into a camp and confuse the enemy. Do I stir up a hornets nest to cause panic, light fires by taking down lanterns or just sneak through the camp and use the roof tops to drop down on unsuspecting foes. The combat is really good. Have heard people mention Arkham Asylum, and yeah, can see the similarity. The open maps are done really well, big but not too big that you spend forever getting somewhere with little to do on route. (My one real complaint with Red Dead Redemption 2). Theres also lots of little things to find whilst travelling, from healing springs, hidden shrines and even spots to write poetry. The game does not do any one thing brilliantly. It has really good graphics, very pretty, but not the best. Good, fun combat, but again, I have seen better, good stories and side quests, but when everything is brought together, its also doesn't have any poor points, so ties up in a truly brilliant and fun package
基本上只能給到8，目前來講遊戲畫面的品質反而造就了這個遊戲的畫面美，這對只想要求畫質的人來講大概很難理解吧 故事對於武士道的糾結其實也寫的相當好。 整個開放世界來講是稍微空泛了點，但刺客教條也蠻常發生這種問題的，我覺得還好XD
Easily the best looking game of all time, the stealth mechanic is not great and difficulty should be adjusted to make it more challenging but it's the only open world game in existence that every single mission and activities point toward one goal and that's creating a hero amd saving the island feom mongol invasion
The graphics are sometimes strangely off end but in its styled vision it delivers a immerse story worthy to indulge in. This game will make you feel like the samurai of your dreams



Really addictiv gameplay. The combat is so satisfying, although it takes some time to get there. Once you picked up some new skills and stances, it gets even better. Stealth is fine, even if the AI is a bit dumb and slow to notice you. Amazing visuals, great music, engaging story. I love the absence of a HUD and mini map especially, it feels really immersive. There's tons to do in the open world, the bigger side missions are interesting and fun. One of the best gameplay moments are the one on one duels you get in the main story, mythic quests and some of the side missions. The only thing that is a bit bothersome is the camera. There's no lock on and the camera can get in your way when you're fighting multiple enemies. Sometimes a bit so scenery obstructs your view. And when you'rer facing a group of enemies it can get a bit frantic. Especially if there is more than one brute type enemy among them and you get swarmed from all sides. Then the combat is basically just dodging and button smashing. Overall I don't want to deduct any points for the minor flaws because the game is just so much fun to play nonetheless. I really think Sucker Punch nailed the setting – if Ubisoft ever comes around to doing an Assassin's Creed in feudal Japan, they'll have a lot to live up to. I'm not sure if they can top this, because Ghost of Tsushima is honestly the best Assassin's Creed I've ever played. With a bit of Uncharted climbing puzzles thrown in.
I enjoy this game so much. It looks great, has a great combat system, strong female characters and an interesting story for open world. The lip sync is not so great to be honest, but this is not even worth mentioning. Usually I don't like open world. For example: I did not enjoy witcher 3. The quests seemed so useless to me. But I love the missions here so far. The samurai/ japenese theme topic is just my taste
Seriously the most I have been entertained in a long time this game is beautiful and I’m surprised how many unlocks there is here .The side stories are just as fun and engaging as main game I’m still on act 1 but I’ve finished a ton of side stories I don’t want this game to end ,taking my time checking out every nook and cranny .Do not miss out on this Gem of a game I usually never review a game but this one I had to take time to do so because this studio Sucker Punch deserves it ,I just Hope they didn’t over work the poor folks like another studio we all have heard of ...
What an amazing game and amazing surprise from Sony. Really a tremendous job from Sucker Punch. Hope there are DLC to continue this adventure. I feel the same excitement playing this game as i did with Assassins's Odyssey which I have > 350 hours with.
Brilliant visuals, solid combat, and a well-thought out story makes Ghost of Tsushima a must have. I would give it a perfect score, but some of the missions have repetitive tendencies.

This game needs to be experienced. Everything has a reward either upgrades or cosmetics. Breathtaking and sheer fun. Gorgeous surroundings, amazing load times and loads of stuff to do.

An overall gorgeous game! Facial details could use some working on but that doesn’t take away the fact that the game is beautiful with extremely satisfying combat
Its not as polished as I would like but its still a great game with amazing visuals, a great sound track and some of the best sword combat since sekiro.

Perfeito, historia boa, jogabilidade incrível, gráficos bons (mesmo tendo ocorrido um downgrade) conta com um modo de jogo chamado modo Kurosawa, que faz o game parecer um filme do diretor Akira Kurosawa, que foi o mais influente em filmes com o tema samurai. As musicas são muito boas, a ambientação também, depois de um tempo de jogo você pode jogar mundo aberto, que é algo incrível para o game, na minha visão esse é o melhor jogo de 2020 até agora. Obrigado por ler
An aesthetically and spiritually wonderful game that blows your mind away using wonderful visuals, great characters of substance and personality and breathtaking story. As a big Japanophile, I can't even begin describing how thankful I am towards Sucker Punch for making this game. Since I'm interested in their language as well, I'm also enjoying and learning 古語. The ideals of a samurai, the 7 ways of 武士道 are not just applicable to samurai, I think we all as humans should also apply them to our best in our lives to lead an internally and externally peaceful life. This is a game made to detox you from all the evils of the real world, bring peace to your mind so that you are ready for another day. 改めて、ありがとうございます、 Sucker Punchさん。
As a fan of Japanese / samurai culture, this game delivered what I was hoping for in every aspect. The inspiration from Kurosawa is evident (with even a cool ass gameplay mode named after him) but the game still manages to give a unique depiction of the era its set in. From the story, the scenery, to the phenomenal gameplay - albeit slightly similar to Assassins Creed - it is so much more polished. The fighting and overall controls are smooth and not too repetitive since you’re able to unlock new techniques over the course of the game (though mostly in the 1st-2nd acts). The characters are interesting in my opinion and their backstories are beautifully laid out in a way that is easy to follow without getting convoluted. Although I haven’t made it to the end, I think i’m close enough to confidently say that this will go down as one of my favourite games ever, top 5 at the very least.
The stunning cinematics combined with seemless gameplay made this game a really phenomenal experience. The stories lag at times, but there are so many of them that it always felt fresh and enjoyable. My favorite game of recent years.
Beautiful Landscape, Satisfy Sword Play, Not Epic story but Good to anticipate.
Шикарная игра,если сравнивать с ассассином,а ее надо именно сравнивать с ним,то она превзошла его во всех аспектах,браво сакер панч!
I’m in love with this this game this is what I wanted.. there are a few it I don’t like like black screens for some cutscenes etc... but the game is just beautiful!!. Will be waiting for a sequel...
This game is a breath of fresh air, combats are fun and rewarding. I really like the main character Jin Sakai, you can easily project yourself in his story. The fact that you are guided by the wind and that there's no HUD is really immersive, it change everything. I wont compare this game graphics with other games even if he is on par, it has his own style, artistically beautiful. I didn't knew anything from this game before buying it, and right from the beginning i immediately loved it.

Really beautiful game, which brings beautiful world, kendo’s fighting system, some interesting questions and very strong atmosphere of middle aged Japan.
Ghost of Tsushima is a GOTY contender, the visuals are beautiful, the combat makes you feel like a badass Samuriai or Ninja. Complex and fun skill tree. Fun activities to do on the world, cut bamboos in a fun minigame! Feel poetic and compose a Haiku! And more... Awesome photo mode! One of the best. I'm love with this game. 10/10
Surely one of the most beautiful open world game I've played, with addictive samurai gameplay, and simply the quality you expect from PlayStation Exclusive
this game after the last of us part II is light being served truffles and caviar after eating some freshly picked dog **** honestly phenomenal sucker punch just reminded us why they are one of the best video game developers on the planet
Phenomenal game, I have never played anything like it. It has so many things that keep you side tracked the combat is some of the best I’ve ever seen in a game and has amazing graphics and load times. Truly an unforgettable game very may be the best game of all time
This game is awesome a mix between Sekiro and Farcry. It is visually stunning and artistic. The combat is great also. Please play it and decide for yourself. You will not be disappointed with it.
this game is incredible. the storyline, gameplay, and overall open world dynamic is absolutely stunning! this is a MUST play for Playstation owners. thank you Sucker Punch, this is a MASTERPIECE
Beautiful,Emotional(not fake ones like in TLOU 2),Thrilling and most Importantly a very fun game,I mean If you like Beautiful Open world games with excellent and different type of combat then this one is definitely for you,One aspect I was a bit miffed about, wasthat this would turn out be riddled with fetch and stuff,while the stuff is there to a lesser extent,its' open world is exquisitely crafted,this may not be the most technically impressive game ever,but it's much more beautifull than any of them,GO BUY IT ! , if you like what you see. GG Sucker Punch.
Beautiful game, very nice and fun combat, nice progression, the open world is engaging. My only problem with this game is the lip sync for the Japanese voice over. But is an amazing and memorable game and I love Japanese culture.
Ghost of Tsushima is a unique game. Visually, the game looks so beautiful. The environments are so vibrant and full of energy. This game by far has the best Cinematography ever. Filters,Color Saturation, and light projection choices made by the director and the cinematographer adds to the story a different flavor. The Music in this game is so melodious and blends well with the visuals. The Skill tree actually makes a huge difference in the game. As you progress through the main story, the AI becomes much smarter and stronger which forces you to upgrade you skills, armor and weapon. The combat in this game is unique. It’s neither hard nor easy, but you have to master the techniques to face every type of enemy. The side missions aren’t boring at all because they extend from the main story. I only raged during the combat because I’m not really good at it, but turning the difficulty down will did it for me. I give this game Graphics 910 , Storytelling 910 , AI movement and combat 1010 , Level design 910, Audio and Music 1010
So far this year has been lackluster with constant delays for many titles besides the magnificent Final Fantasy VII Remake. Ghost of Tsushima has been an amazing ride. The best open world game since Witcher 3 in my opinion. The main story is strong with twists and turns that you may not expect but are not added for shock value. More like a great samurai movie. Most side quests are okay at best but the really great ones are those connected to certain characters and a couple of others that are longer and provide a feel of what the Witcher 3 brought us. This is by far the best looking PlayStation 4 game I have seen in a long time with such an amazing world to explore. To be fair though I am a fan of Japanese culture and open world games. Though even if you don’t like assassins creed type games this game does not have a level system so there is no grinding involved. If you want to just play the main story go for it. Definitely the true swan song of the ps4.
Llevaré unas 15 horas y es agradable el sentimiento de mundo abierto que te aporta. La narrativa es simple, pero lo compensa con una variedad de movimientos, estrategias e inmersión que hacía tiempo que no veía. Lo recomiendo mucho, es como un Far Cry con la dinámica de Days Gone ^^
juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo, juegazo. Que pinche juegazo
This games beauty and well thought out story are the main attraction but its the detail to the side quest and lore that stand out to me every little thing you do feels meaningful the vast amount of customization the way you choose your horse and name it bonding with it amazing simple amnd amazing
An open world game which actually has lots of things to do in it unlike another recently released. this game is a love letter to Akira Kurosawa, the visuals are magnificent, the action rather visceral. you're not swinging any old golf club around...this is a samurai sword folded hundreds of times to strengthen it and checked for sharpness by placing it in a a river to see if it will slice a leaf in half as it floats merrily through to the sea. you play Jin...a young lord who must, with the aid of his uncle and lords of other clans on the island, fight off the mongol invasion. This does not go to plan...to be fair the game would be rather short if it did. you find yourself having to build Jins skill set after the battle where he has a decision to make...fight as a samurai and maintain his honour and that of his clan or fight from the shadows as a ghost which goes against everything he was taught. Jin comes to the conclusion that he must win by any and all costs. I'm about 40 hours in so i would say I've already got my moneys worth. there is nothing worse than paying 50 quid and only getting about 23 hours game play out of a game. especially if it doesn't feel re playable. this game has options where you can make different builds for Jin meaning a few new playthroughs are on the cards. well done sucker punch. would have liked them to make it easier to scabbard your sword though. i give this game a 9 out of ten for visuals, story telling, things to do as well. cant give it a ten as there is no such thing as a perfect game. one last thing to games journos (whatever that job entails). moaning about cultural appropriation. this game is about story telling as most are. the fact that Japanese critics love this game shows the rest of you in wait for it...America (yes we all knew that was coming) as hacks who cant appreciate anything beautiful. I'm surprised they didn't bemoan the mongols for their colonialism and use of the slave trade...maybe they didn't care...maybe they aren't that educated while doing social studies degrees. who knows eh?
Gameplay/combat 8.5/10 Combat pretty good other than poor enemy targeting and camera. Not too many climbing sequences. Balanced. Stealth not great. Graphics 9/10 Looks really nice. Not perfect. God of war looks better imo. Story/Dialogue 7.5/10 Main character was the only person I liked in the game, story wasnt very gripping. Polish 7/10 Camera quite bad, object impedance, jumping and grappling hook janky, enemy locking really bad. Hopefully future patches fix some of these issues. Systems, customization, controls 8/10 Controls for thrown objects really bad. Skill tree is good. Customization has some variety and is good. Fun/satisfying 8/10 Pretty engaging and satisfying to play. Total 48/60


Это игра для меня видится Shadow of Mordor + Assasin + The Witcher , но только на выходе лучше всего этого. В ней больше кредо убийцы, чем в самом кредо, квестовая составляющая может конкурировать с ведьмаком, но только событий на каждые 50кв.метров больше чем в ведьмаке и сражения качественней и приятней глазу и техникой чем в тенях Мордора. Минус для себя вижу камеру, при большом количестве противников, нервирует что они находятся за камерой, но к этому со временем привыкаешь .

I'm just going to come out and say it, Ghost of Tsushima is my GOTY for 2020. It's also one of my favorite games of all time. It blew away my expectations. The combat is sooo good and the other aspects of gameplay are very well done too. The graphics are second to none. Seriously, this could be the best looking game I've ever played. Red Dead Redemption 2, Horizon Zero Dawn and God of War look amazing in their own right, but Ghost of Tsushima has moments that I think surpass even these top contenders. The world and atmosphere that Sucker Punch have created is so rich and magical, it just pulls you in. I'll probably write a better review later. For now suffice it to say that this is a very special game and I applaud Sucker Punch for how much they have improved as game creators and for creating one of the best games of my life so far.
Отсутствие в игре перекаченных лесбух с потными кустами на подмышках-уже задел на маст плэй.
Magnifico gioco e esclusiva ps4! comparto grafico e artistico fenomale regala orrizzonti bellissimi combat system bello appaggante accompagnato a un storia stupenda se vi piacciono gli open world consiglio assolutamente
Amazing game ! Adventure as in Assasin Creed + Action as in Sekiro = Ghost of Tsushima Excellent Graphics, Open world, Character animation and AI I play at a high level of difficulty, the emotions from fights are closer to Sekiro, which you do not experience in Assasin Creed
This is truly amazing. Everything I wanted from this game. Stunning visuals/ fluid combat and the theme is right up my alley ! What a way to end the PS4 exclusive era !
Gioco bellissimo sotto ogni punto di vista,tra trama,grafica e tradizione giapponese il gioco riesce ad essere almeno per me un vero e proprio capolavoro. Insomma un gioco così ci serviva senza mostri o fantasy alla sekiro.
Estéticamente es espectacular. Todo un portento gráfico de esta generación. La jugabilidad deja un poco que desear, sobre todo por la cámara durante el combate, que es bastante mala al no poder centrar bien al objetivo. Por lo demás la historia no es gran cosa, pero mantiene el interés del jugador. En resumen: Es un juego notable, donde el principal interés es vivir una experiencia samurái visualmente espectacular y con niveles de dificultad para todos los gustos
It reminds me best Tenchu game we never get! Extra magical looking, epic music. Extra fun to control character, loadings only 3 to 5 sec! And it will get free PS5 boost =) simply best game ever.
Kurz und Knapp gesagt. Dieses Spiel ist jeden Cent wert. Ghost of Tusuhima ist eines der Hochwertigsten AAA Games seit langem, dass einem viele Extra‘s zu einer Filmreifen Story mit tollen Charakteren gibt OHNE Extra Kosten zu verlangen. Lang gesagt ... Bei all denn Kontroversen in der letzten Zeit um AAA Spiele. Sei es Politik, Microtransaktionen, Lootboxen, etc... lässt es Leute schon vorsichtig werden bei neuen IP‘s. Ghost of Tsushima ist ein Erfrischend ehrliches Spiel. Ein Vollkommendes Spiel, mag man fast sagen. Keine Shop‘s, keine Boxen.. einfach nur Spielen. Dies auch noch in einer Atemraubenden Kulisse, die nur noch von der Filmreifen Story übertroffen wird. Man merkt Sucker Punch‘s liebe zu Asiatischen Kung Fu Filmen in jedem Charakter, Detail der Welt oder dem Menü die einen das Spiel Starten lässt. Ich bin jetzt über 30 Std im Spiel, so wie durch das 1 Kapitel. Habe aber immer noch nicht ansatzweise alles gemacht was man im Ersten Kapitel/ 1 Abschnitt der Map machen kannst. Die einzigen ‘‘Mängel‘‘ die mir einfallen könnten bisher: - Eine Ungewöhnliche aber Schnell und Intuitive Steuerung/ Steuerung’s Schema - NPC‘s sehen wie bei jedem Spiel, etwas schlechter aus als die Wichtigen Charakter - Man besucht öfters mal im Beginn des Spiel, Bereiche öfters. ( Nach der Mainmission werden Neben Quest freigeschaltet/ Entdeckt...) Allerdings alles Punkte die in jedem Spiel vorhanden sind. Wobei mir Positiv aufgefallen ist. Durch extrem Kurze Ladezeiten sind Schnellreisen nicht langwierig und zäh. So wie Missionen oft Nah aneinander Liegend, was in kurzen Wegen endet. Man fällt förmlich über Missionen, Nebenaufgaben etc...
Thank God! Fortunately, there is still a highlight at the end of the console generation. Great graphics and atmosphere. Great combat system. Fantastic open world. The only drawback, who is already overwhelmed with the brainless gigantism in Ubisoft's AC series, will also encounter the typical problems of Open World games at GoT. Beautiful, but big and time-consuming open world, which can lead to motivation problems at some point. After 20 hours, you only saw 30% of the game with side quests etc. You should know this before you buy the game, but it's worth every penny. Nevertheless, it has become the masterpiece that another AAA game wanted to be recently and failed miserably. Without any disgusting political agenda, Ghost of Tsushima puts play fun and show values in the foreground and delivers what you expect and deserve as a player. Thank you Sucker Punch for this masterpiece! It also fills the void that the Tenchu franchise left after the brand died.
Visually stunning with a great soundtrack. The AI are kind of retarded and stealth doesn't work the way it's supposed to. The combat gets repetetive quickly and the story drags a little by the end. Not very difficult overall even on the hardest setting so casual gamers can enjoy it to it's fullest. It's a solid game though for some light entertainment. 8/10
Un juego de mundo abierto que no aburre explorar, una representación de la cultura samurai excelente, la inmersión, las voces en japonés, la narración, la banda sonora, el combate, solo dan ganas de seguir jugando... Es un juego impecable. Los pocos errores que he encontrado: la cámara en ocasiones no sigue el ritmo de la acción, falta algo más de personalización para el personaje, y la IA puede ser no tan inteligente. En definitiva, salvo por pequeños errores que no llegan a estropear un ápice de la experiencia, es un juego que es inmersivo, que divierte y engancha.




Stunning visuals, awesome gameplay, likable characters, fluid plot that actually makes sense. Thank you sucker punch for delivering a the game you advertised without using the bait and switch technique like Naughty Dog.
I have always wanted an open world samurai game and I thank sucker punch for giving us this game the combat is great it does have its problems and generic side quest but the main quest and mythic quest are awesome and there is no level gating and the game world is gorgeous and the tracking wind,fox den the birds are something which immerses me in the without having any usage of hud I love it and I recommend everyone who is a samurai fan to play this game
Although it is not a Japanese company, it still submits pretty good results. It proves that cultures can be understood by each other. The creation of culture is so extensive that it should not be restricted by discriminatory values. And it is better than TLOU2.
This is one of the best games I've ever player. Tsushima looks beautiful, although the fallen leaves look pretty bad in my opinion. Combat feels great and never makes you feel too OP. Definitely a contender for GOTY.

La gran sorpresa de PS4, juegazo a toda los niveles, gráficos de ensueño, gran jugabilidad y una historia que engancha. Además de unos tiempos de carga que no me creo en PS4 con un HDD.


The pros: - A serious samurai story without bells, whistles and other desperate attempts to impress people. I, also, enjoyed the dark tone of the game, keeping the comedy elements to the minimum. Not *every* story has to have the classic comic relief character. - Interesting characters and backstories (just take my advice and do all the character side missions) - Very nuanced combat system which indeed makes you feel like a legendary samurai. - Breathtaking open world. The art direction is phenomenal. - Memorable soundtrack. - The atmosphere of the game and the level of immersion are unparalleled. - (bonus) For those who grew up with Kurosawa's films and/or samurai stories, this is a game tailored specifically for you. Like, it checks *every* box on the list. The cons: - Bad AI. - Very basic stealth mechanics. - The camera. - The fox/bird mechanic can get irritating at times. I think it should be toned down. All in all, this is a great game, truly. It has its flaws, but once it clicks you just don't care about them that much.
Wonderful game due to deep atmosphere, story and art direction. Gameplay is nothing new yet polished quality of all it's aspects making it completely immaculate. Closest game analog - Shadow of the colossus.
amazing gameplay, graphics, story iwould say perfection. One of the best games I've ever played.q got collectors edition, the mask is awesome. Love it.
every single element in this game is beautyfull, the combat system is amazing and you can feel that your katana is a deadly weapon, if you prefer going stealh mode (ghost) everything you do remember the tenchu saga. amazing game: Graphics: excelent Gameplay: very good VOice: perfect (in japanese) Music: very good Hystori: not finish yet, but its good, don't expect a super history
This is a decent game, albeit with quite a few flaws here and there. The visuals are very nice indeed and the best thing about the game, combined with a very nice world design. I can't stop looking at all the amazing looking things as I run through the world. However I think the world is also a bit too littered with "optional" stuff. I mean come on, 50 fox dens. Over 50 mongol camps/stronghols. I mean, no one is going to enjoy doing these things 50 times, or the other things that you have to do over and over and over again. This is a bit too Ubisoft-style for me. Other games like Horizon only makes you do each thing a very limited amount of times which prevents you from noticing any repetitiveness. The combat system is nice except for the fact that there is no targeting system which can be a real pain in tight areas, especially indoors. Sometimes the character just refuses to attack the enemy I want which has gotten me killed more than once. Also when 5+ enemies gang up on you, the camera doesn't really help you but makes things worse. My main problem with the game is its repetitiveness. Basically the only enemy type is humans (Mongolians) and basically every quest involves killing a bunch of them, or rescuing someone without being detected which gets really old after 10+ hours. The repetitive quest design is what really lowers the score for me, combined with the fact that the main story leves a lot to be desired. The game would have benefited from more set-pieces and scripted sequences to break up the repetitivness (the mission where you use the "arrow cannon" to sink ships is a good example). Games like The Witcher 3, Horizon and God of War does a much better job and beat this one by far.
Отличная игра с удивительно красивым открытым миром и историей, насыщеной японским калоритом, которая не была извращена лесбийством, гейством, трансами, феминизмом и т.д. Так же в игре отлично реализованы игровые механики.
I write few reviews here, but this game needs me to write a few words. It's just fabulous, top graphics, top gameplay, top music, top combat! whoever liked Sekiro will love this
Great Combat, good Story with some nice Twists, beautiful music. An Evolution of Ubisoft Open World formula.

Pocas cosas negativas se puede decir de este juego pero esa parte prefiero que se lea en la prensa yo solo vengo a dejar una reseña como jugador, y mi experiencia como jugador no ha podido ser mas satisfactoria. No, no me he pasado el juego aún pero he jugado lo suficiente para darme cuenta de pequeños detalles y sistemas de jugabilidad bastante frescos. Este juego bien puede ser que no innova mucho pero se hace disfrutar a su manera el gameplay es muy satisfactorio y combinar tus reflejos con el uso de herramientas y posturas lo hace mucho mas interesante que un simple machaca-botones hasta ver como ganas las peleas. El escenario cambia mediante juegas por ej: si juegas en sigilo hay mas tormentas y lluvia o si juegas como un samurai con honor los cielos están mas despejados y puede parecer una tontería pero este tipo de cosas te hacen ver el juego de otra manera y disfrutarlo aún más. Un juego que vale muchísimo la pena y espero que el estudio siga haciendo estas joyas
Одна из лучших игр поколения. Рядом только God of War. Захватывающий сюжет, самая красивая графика 2020 года,привычный геймплей.Все идеально в общем,кроме камеры...

Finally the game I been waiting forever for. A genuine Samurai tale. Visually stunning, sound is amazing. Only slight cons are the lip syncing and some small bugs while playing.
I created a user just to log in and say this: the critic reviews score (83) is totally unfair. This game deserves much, much more. Combat brings you all the fun you had in Nioh, and you feel every hit like sekiro. Tsushima Island is the most beautiful thing I have seen since Zelda breathed wild. For someone like me, who grew up with animes based on Ronin characters, this is incredible. If you've ever read the Vagabond manga, the Musashi novel, or enjoyed anime movies like ninja scroll, this will be the game of your life. If not, you will also enjoy, because it is a masterpiece.
Отличная стилистика игры, великолепная боевка, все выглядит очень красиво, если бы не просадки по фпс, была бы 10/10. В неё интересно играть, а это самое главное!


Ghost of Tsushima is the best game I have played in 2020. The combat is downright amazing and once you begin to master it you feel like a Samurai killing machine. The game offer tons of variety and ways to take down your opponents. The game also has some of the best side missions I have experienced since the Witcher 3. Graphics are on par with any modern day title and the world itself is one of the best I have ever seen. The foliage and trees sway around you and the lighting effects are second to none. Sunsets are a joy to behold and I don't think I have ever used photo mode as much as I did in this game. The story can be a bit cliche at times but I am a huge fan of Samurai lore. I experienced very few glitches while playing and load times are some of the fastest for any game I have ever played. I could go on for hours about how much fun I had with this game but I will just finish by saying after the rough year we have all had Ghost of Tsushima was the breath of fresh air I needed.


Refreshing feel on open world game play. Missions feel less like redundant chores and more so like episodes in a series. As someone who enjoys Japanese samurai films and reading about this time period in history, this game is captivating and genuinely immersive. There's a definite cinematic aspect to actual combat that's truly unique. Cutting down an enemy, while having the camera slide to view your next opponent, with grass blowing in the wind and lighting to reflect perspective makes this game a work of art. Definitely holds it's own, even stands out, with heavyweights of open worlds. Nice to not feel punished for avoiding stealth take downs, and I can't get enough of the standoffs. Will probably never get a genuine Musashi Miyamoto game but I'll take this. Would be a 10, unless I've yet to unlock it, but a realistic or increased difficulty for "hard" would have been ideal. Only regret you'll have is not buying it sooner.
Amazing graphics, great combat mechanics, great storyline, addictive and very cinematic. I give it a 9 and not a 10 because I feel let down by the interaction with the world (climbing, jumping from a platform to another) and the horse (compared to RDR2). This game and RDR2 are the only games that got my attention.


Overall: 10/10 Graphics:10/10 Gameplay:10/10 Mechanics:10/10 My Take: If you were a fan of Tenchu Stealth Assassins from the 90s then Ghost of Tsushima is the game for you. Ghost of Tsushima is the Tenchu remake we always wanted. So much to explore in this game the stretches the main storyline. This game fills the void that The Last of Us II left us with. This is Game Of The Year quality. This is an instant classic for Suckerpunch and it sends the PS4 era out with a bang.

I have no finished the game yet, but cant stop playing. Game looks great, Im enjoying the story.. Im doing all side missions.. just a fun game to play!
I've spent about 20 hours with the game so far, taking my time to do side quests. Let's get the obvious out of the way: The game is absolutely gorgeous. There are times when I simply have to set the controller down and admire the stunning landscapes, be it a gorgeous sunset, a beautiful field of flowers blowing in the breeze or a crimson forest with leaves scattering all around you. The animations are all, for the most part, excellent and the controls are tight and responsive. There are times once the game 'clicks' where you'll perform what seems like a well choreographed scenes straight out of your favorite samurai flicks. The stealth also feels tight and responsive, and enemies once alerted to your presence work in pairs to try and keep you from sneaking up on more of them, and will sound horns to alert nearby mongols to your presence. The camera, however, seems to work against you sometimes. On more than one occasion, enemies will attack you from off-screen simply because the camera does a poor job of facing enemies. A lock-on or ability to quickly refocus the camera may have alleviated this somewhat, though the issue does not come up enough to be a serious downside. It functions most of the time, but it's notable when it doesn't. The voice acting has been wonderful, so far and the characters have all been likable, even if somewhat dower (though considering the circumstances of the game, this is well understood.) The story is something I will not comment on as of yet, as I've yet to complete it. My impressions so far, after 20 hours, is that it has been enjoyable if somewhat predictable at times; though once you've consumed enough media, anything becomes predictable. Overall, this is one of my favorite games of the generation, and I sincerely look forward to Sucker Punch's next title if they give it the same loving attention as they clearly gave Ghost of Tsushima.
It is one of the most beautiful game that I've ever played, with the beautiful graphics and scenery and gameplay as well, this game is an absolute masterpiece!
The game is beautiful! The atmosphere of ancient Japan is perfectly conveyed. I really liked the realistic setting and action in the style of samurai fighters, the music is also on top.. Sucker Punch created a world that you want to return to again and again! I hope on PS5 it will be even more beautiful visually
This game drips with atmosphere. You really feel like this is a living breathing world comparable to something like Red Dead Redemption 2. I’m not going to talk about anything in particular besides to say that you need to experience this for yourself. However, I MUST at least mention the loading times. These are some of the BEST loading times I’ve ever experienced in a video game. Fast traveling across the map takes maybe 10 seconds and when you die it’s almost instantaneous. Huge props to Sucker Punch. And all of this in a game that doesn’t eat up space, as it is roughly 39gbs. Absolutely the best game of 2020 yet. A game like this gets me even more excited for the PS5 because if an aging platform like the PS4 is capable of something like this then I have very high expectations for the next generation.
The game is perfect for those who are in love with everything connected to Japan entourage. I'm getting a huge satisfaction from this game, thans Sucker Punch.
Vibrant and colorful surroundings. Casual-friendly yet rewarding combat system. Meaningful side quests without too much hassle and deliver this to that person routine. Great navigation system not based on minimap and/or 'Samurai sense'... Leaves and shoots constantly moving under the breadth of wind... Of course there are some flaws such as 'not always at best angle camera' or character animation stutters on ladders and tree planks, but it does not matter much for me in this great game. I just want to ride in a sunset while playing flute.

Excellent , phenomenal game, Very good gameplay, atmospheric, maybe little melancholic feeling. Great.I like it very much. Not egocentric, with humility goes the "last" samurai through his live.
Un juego increíble, un apartado gráfico, estético y sonoro de 10. La historia no es la revolución de los videojuegos como the last of us pero en lo que tiene que destacar lo hace de manera sobresaliente y sin tener ningún pero notable.
Sottovalutato da molti , un gioco divertente e appagante , non ci si annoia mai, personalmente dopo breath of the wild è il primo gioco dove faccio tutte le quest secondarie volentieri
This game is amazing. Outstanding graphics, immersive world and mechanics, combat system very satisfying and skill based, if you're a good player ok, if not, you die. This game has the best OSTs ever.

Hands down the best game I've played in 2020! The game is amazing played for 24hrs without sleep, i just can't put my conteoller down, photo mode is awesome, I felt really good playing this game and didn't feel forced to play in any particular way. The map is huge, with fast travel, actual fast travel, (it's really fast) don't know how they pulled this off. Thank you sucker punch
A beautiful, amazing & most importantly fun game. The gameplay feels smooth, and the action feels breathtaking yet natural. Like watching a Quentin Tarantino samurai movie. I been wanting to play a samurai game for a good while & this just hits it out of the park. I created a an account just to review this game, thats how much i love it. I will be recommending everyone i know about it.

Um dos gráficos mais bonitos da geração. Ótima jogabilidade. A falta da sincronização labial incomoda um pouco. No geral um ótimo jogo ,com alguns pequenos problemas


When I pre-ordered this game, I was expecting Game of the Year contender. Instead, I am left feeling as if this might be my favorite game of all time. For me, this ranks up there with the recent greats such as The Witcher 3, Red Dead Redemption 1 & 2, Kingdom Come Deliverance, Skyrim etc, and manages to surpass them all. This game takes all of the best parts of previous games and seamlessly combines them into a masterpiece of a final product. The game runs better than any game I've played in a long time. It has incredible render distance, crisp resolution, rock solid stable fps, and maybe the best lighting and visual effects I have ever witnessed in a video game. As for the gameplay, picture a stealth combat system that is reminiscent of Assasin's creed 2.0, with a combat system that is about 10x better and more rewarding than any similar franchise has ever mustered up before. If stealth isn't your thing, simply walk up to the front gates of an enemy encampment and put your dodging/parrying skills to the test to win the fight like a true Samurai; not like some "coward who strikes from the shadows." The game also features brutal and gorey finishers that will result in dismembered limbs and blood hurling in every direction. Buy the damn game. If you want to 100% complete everything, you're looking at a 50-60 hour experience most likely. This is one that will be talked about for years, so you wouldn't want to miss it.
Das Spiel hat hier und da seine Schwächen, aber sonst bockt sich alles. Sehr episch. Kämpfen macht Spaß erkunden der Map macht Spaß. Auf der PlayStation 5 wird es nochmal gespielt.


Najlepszy sandbox w jaki grałem na tej generacji. Świetna fabuła, zadania poboczne, obłędna grafika, znajdźki, ścieżka dźwiękowa, tryb kurosawy, klimat samurajski, rozwój postaci i bardzo krótkie czasy ładowania to największe plusy tej pozycji. Ta gra trafiła idealnie w moje gusta. Polecam każdemu niezdecydowanemu.

Eu sou um player de combate, farm, build, exploração, história, mas nunca parei para ficar admirando cenário em jogo. Ghost of Tsushima é uma obra de arte!!! Meu top 1 do ano.

Uhh, very cool game. The story of Japan, its atmosphere ... it just delights me. Huh, you could say I'm just obsessed with that. I really like Japan. In short: you won't regret buying this game. And if you, like me, are a fan of such an atmosphere, history ... and samurai ... then I think you will like it as much as I do.

Game magnifico, muito divertido. gosto muito do estilo samurai... estava sentido falta de um game deste estilo... combate excelente. Vale muito a pena a compra.
I really enjoy playing this game. I want to play this game over and over! So much better than LOU2. Story is awesome. It feels like an adventure, never boring. battle system is good. I hope to see if any DLC or New Game Plus for this game! The Flow of this game never stops as it feels like an AWESOME movie you interact and enjoy. It feels better than any Assassin Creed game. The graphics feel like fresh air, very detailed and I don't see anything wrong with this game! Would love to see a Ninja Game that is close to this game!
Прекрасная игра, уже на половине. Игра понравится всем любителям японского стиля, открытого мира и частично ассасина с far cry'ем.
Jogo muito bem feito e ambientado. É satisfatório andar pela ilha de Tsushima. Devido ser um jogo mundo aberto tem seus problemas quanto a jogabilidade. A câmera é outro problema que incomoda demais nos combates, sendo que no aspecto de mecânica de combate é o único ponto ruim pois é muito bom sair retalhando os inimigos tanto em stealth quanto desafia-los para um confronto (parte mais empolgante na minha opinião). O roteiro não é muito original, mas o dilema enfrentado pelo protagonista é muito bem mostrado e empolgante se souber o quanto a honra é importante para este povo.
Ghost of Tsushima can be described as a dream game. If crescent is fascinated by a Japanese culture, especially with what is related to feudal Japan and samurai, it certainly holds good memories of series, films or manga with stories about these honorable warriors and all categories of the honor code. There are several ways to indulge or appetite for content related to these feudal warriors. Whether through anime like Rurouni Kenshin, Ninja Scroll or even Sengoku Basara, manga like Blade of the Immortal or Usagi Yojimbo, these are some of the ways that can expand my passion for samurai.
Wow ! What a game ! I can't get enough of it. I gotta give it to Sucker Punch, they really nailed the open world environment. I love all of the activities and I can't get enough of going about on the map. The combat is awesome. It's deep and I would recommend going on HARD. That's how you get to master it and see it in all its depth. Overall this game for me its a nice breath of fresh air and surpassed my expectations. Love it.

This game is amazing, Why ? Because this game has all the cool aspects that exist in previous PS games, such as the combination of Tenchu and MGS V gameplay, the soundtrack makes goosebumps like Final Fantasy, God of War class design, and last but not least, classic cinematic accompanied by old school story samurai, SO ... PERFECT.
As the History was once, this game explains the invasion of the Mongol Empire against Japan, starting from Tsushima island, this game shows us the best colorfull moments and landscapes we deserve as gamers, we play as Jin Sakai of the Sakai clan and we must defend the island and our people, the combat system is tough to learn on our first steps but in a couple of hours you will love it, also no minimap, full free exploration for us! The game is kind of a mix between Zelda: Breath of the Wild and The Witcher 3, 10/10.

When I started it I didn't think that I would love it so much that I couldn't stop playing. It's already one of my favorite games of all time. I highly recommend playing it it's just too good ♡
It made sjws on Twitter mad, I’ve never played it, but if they don’t like it, that automatically means it’s undoubtedly amazing, and everyone should pick it up, these **** only like game that are trash but that have gay, trans, fat, disabled, Muslim, women of colour in it. What a bunch of **** they are. 10/10 - me Would recommend.

Amazing world, great dialogue, insanely fun gameplay. Unfortunately for me, I don't know if I made a mistake of if there was a bug or if the game is coded this way, but when I cleared certain missions WITHOUT using assassinations or anything that would "break the samurai code" I was still called out for "not fighting like a samurai" and that completely ruined my immersion. Other than that tho, super good game.
Wow just wow... the game is amazing. Everything from combat to story and exploration. I definitely needed this after tlou2 which personally didn't live up to my expectations. Got did however, and a game that can live up to that hype is definitely worth a 10/10.

Im not even half at the game but so far i am loving it! The Combat, exploration. so much more to unlock. you can Bow you play the flute more amazingly you can draw and sheath your sword how cool is that!
Very fun and well crafted game , easily one of the most beautiful in graphic terms of this generation Story is great , definitely room for improvement so here's hoping for a sequel :-)
GoT is one of the best swansong's the PS4 could have asked for. Utilizing some of the best graphics this system has seen to date it is a mesmerizing experience to behold. The gameplay is solid, story is amazing and controls are responsive. While I respect the "souls-bourne" games for their game design and technical prowess.... this game is (thankfully) not as difficult. It is quite enjoyable to play and a welcome chapter close for the PS4 system.
What in the Actual Fudge, this game is breath taking, i can't praise this game more than every person who actually loved the game did, and it's safe from a slogan "Game should not be fun". I don't know who's the game director that said that, but with that being said, he made The Last of His work. Ps. All my friends we're all young adults,,and we just can't stop thinking about this game because it's so beautiful. Pps, we're Filipinos. :
I would've given this game a 10 if the camera weren't panned in too closely with no ability to adjust it. The only reason that's a problem is that this world is so beautiful, it would be nice to actually see it when exploring on low ground. Other than that, great story, great character building, love the fight mechanics, and I just love playing this character.
This game is a breath of fresh air compared to recent releases, being that it just focused on having fun and letting the player choose the path they want to take. U can use stealth or challenge the whole bunch to honorable combat it's your choice. But the best thing in this game is the world itself which is gorgeous. Combat feels great the story is pretty good i highly recommend ghost.

This game is fantastic!! I love all the elements in it. From the first minute, you can feel the emotional connection with the character. This game is so engaging. The environment is fascinating and you can feel the refreshing wind during the game. Fighting elements are super enjoyable and fast.
amazing game play beautiful graphics interesting story and plot . and more amazing side quests. they all are so unique that you might even like it more than the main story. i didn't give it 10 for two reasons first the subtitles for English sub and Japanese voice was super off like sometime the Japanese voice said a name but English sub says another name completely and the other reason is the lip syncing for Japanese voice that is unfortunately also super off . beside of this two the game is amazing

Absolute masterpiece. Very authentic feel, great combat, intriguing story, lots to do. And the GRAPHICS. Just wow. I wish it released on PC so that I can truly experience the beauty, however what they produce with outdated tech is phenomenal. Absolute MUST PLAY if you have even a slight like for melee combat
This game is breathtakingly amazing! Every aspect of this game is brilliantly crafted. From the stunning visuals, to the engaging tales, to the intricate, but easily-understood combat system, to the deep and interesting characters, it all comes together to weave an intense and emotional story. The only criticism I have is that there is some mild jankyness when it comes to sprinting and some of the in-conversation animation, but this can easily be overlooked. This game can be both intense and relaxing, as there are activities that the character partakes in that you can enjoy investing yourself into as well. It is a magnificent representation of a culture that I personally hold very dear. If you are a fan of the Assassin's Creed series and the Batman Arkham series, I feel you will deeply enjoy what this game has to offer

Absolutely loving this game so far, it's not perfect, it has some weird animations(especially while jumping), few minor glitches and the stealth can make the game really easy(enemies AI on stealth is dumb). However, this doesn't stop you from the enjoying the game. Sword combat is so satisfying which i why i go in as a Samurai while clearing Camps. Graphics is just WOW, i keep wondering if they can achieve this on OG PS4, what they will be able to do with PS5. I do suggest to play on Hard as it makes the game more immersive. Exploration is fun and innovative with the Wind directing to your pinned location. I can't tell enough about the story though, just been wandering around appreciating the beautiful world and doing side quests :D I would highly recommend it to anyone who likes open world games

The definition of perfection. That about sums up not only the experience you have on the island of Tsushima, but the game as a whole. To summarize this without writing too long of a review, I will point out definitive examples. Basically everything you do in Ghost of Tsushima is Tsushima feels like a natural,
Really is a breath of fresh air. This is my first ever review, but I want to support the game due to the wide range of review scores . The graphics, on the most part, are amongst the best I've ever seen. That first time you get on your horse, galloping into the long grass as the music begins to crescendo as the sun is setting over the horizon. Just wow. The combat is good, nothing amazing, however I do like the range of options that you are given in your encounters. I do find myself forgetting to utilize certain moves and options, but I guess this may change in time. The exploration is amazing. I'm heading toward a mission, and I get lost in the world and side stories that another 2 hours have gone by . All in all, I'd say this is a fitting swansong to the PS4. If you have any love for Japanese history or samurai inspiration, this game is a no brainer
I'm an avid gamer this year; there's have been few games that have released this year that had me glued and excited to play them.From Ghost gameplay story as well as breathtaking scenery suckerpunch has made a experience I'm happy I have gotten to experience this year.

This game is beautiful. The combat is satisfying and does not get repetitive at all. The atmosphere is great. It has some bugs but I think they still get fixed before long. The ending made me cry. One of the most beautiful stories of honor, duty, and family i have ever played. Would be 10/10 if not for a few bugs. Wonderful game.
El mejor juego de todos, los mejores graficos, el mejor gameplay la mejor historia sin duda sony siempre hace bien las cosas, es el juego perfecto hasta en banda sonora 10/10 se va a vender mucho apurense que se acaban, si lo ven comprenlo de inmediato
Ghost of Tsushima is a stunning love story to the Samurai fantasy. It is accurate enough to the history while still providing a genuinely enjoyable gaming experience. The writing is compelling enough to keep the player interested but the stunning open world and gameplay are where this game really shines. Sucker Punch has done a wonderful job of bringing a memorable samurai experience to the PS4 by staying true to the themes and values presented by this time period without bringing unnecessary modern political culture. This feels like a raw, gritty tale. It is a human story at it’s core, exploring the sacrifice of ones values and traditions and the effect that has on the player and the characters around them. The score and art style of this game are also incredible. 10/10 one of the best games I’ve ever played.
Finally!!! A game with no agenda politics and just a solid game that makes me have fun with a good detailed story and great gameplay (not to mention there are no microtransactions) This is what a game should be like. THANK YOU SUCKERPUNCH!


amazing game, truly captivating, the devs created an amazing story and the graphics are top notch. i tried the black/white version and it is very clean and reminds me of old movies. one of the best gameplay we have seen, it isnt sekiro but you can still have tons of fun.
This game hasn’t blown me away. The story is gripping, the side quests are enjoyable and this game has the MOST beautiful world I have ever played in. I literally cannot stop using the photo mode. The game does feel like it’s side quests get a TINY bit repetitive on the gameplay aspect, as a lot of it has to do with combat, BUT the combat system in this game is a perfect mix of challenging, rewarding and so incredibly fluid. I never felt myself getting worn out from the side content, because even though some of it was similar, the story aspects of the side quests kept me engaged and when the gameplay is THAT much fun, it’ makes that content feel like a blast. Honestly I loved this game, and it’s definitely one of the best purchases I have made in a while.


I did not score this a 10 because it is a perfect game, I would probably score it around a 9.7. This is also due to a bias of liking Japanese history and culture. But this goes down as probably one of the best games I have ever played. Sucker Punch brought out the best and most immersive way to do an open world game. The combat is so good and satisfying. Of course there are a few glitches and bugs, but it doesn't take away from this master piece of a game. The bar is raised and yet another reason why the PS4 won this console generation. I enjoyed the story because it reminds me of Akira Kurosawa film. My only true critic is they need to add a new game plus that allows to choose difficulty and maybe add one more difficulty rank.
No spoilers here. You remember being a kid and sitting in front of the TV playing a videogame, and then all of a sudden 8-10 hours had passed, your parents were telling you it was bed time, and you wanted to do just one more thing before putting it down, but that one more thing turned into 10 more things and before you knew it you were a groggy mess at school the next day? That happened to me with this game, except for with work today on Monday. It. Was. Glorious. And I can not wait to get back to it.

Un juego excelente desd la narrativa que te atrapa hasta los paisajes que no dejan de sorprenderte, el sistema de pelea ofrece mucha variedad y estilos, juegazo!
Great game! Very beautiful world, amazing landscapes, exciting fights! Samurai armor looks simply mesmerizing! Many thanks to the developers for this masterpiece!




Besta graphic and explorations in the generation. The gameplay is fun but not so good like tlou 2. The story is ok and the character evolution is incredible
Sucker Punch has done an amazing job making the regular open-world format refreshing and streamlined. Although there’s barely anything innovative in terms of gameplay, most elements under the category are executed extremely well and exceeded my expectations, especially the combat. The combat feels like a blend of Sekiro and Arkham Batman, with more fun and variety but less frustration and button-mashes. I think playing in Hard difficulty is the best way to experience this satisfying combat system because you have to keep your strategy dynamic by combing parrying, dodging, stances, combos, throwables, and deadly (super cool) abilities and, dare I say, that's what makes you FEEL LIKE A SAMURAI. About the graphics, well, I think they are alright, only spent half of the playtime taking pictures. And the stealth sucks, for real. But as an anti-stealth gamer, I'm actually a bit pleased about that.

Proof that single player story game will be and still the the king..Ghost of Tsushima is Game of the year in 2020 in my opinion, kudos for sucker punch, keep updating the game, stay hungry for improvement sucker punch
this game is a masterpiece and i'm not even joking , i have been playing it since it's resale and i can't stop i'm side tracking to explore the wonderful island of Tsushima and complete side quests or hunt for "EpiC" gear and every moment feels satisfying i haven't seen many games based feudal japan, i have spent some months in japan trying to learn the history and language i think this game does a great job in delivering this history in an interesting perspective i care for the characters in the game he have depth , and the world is beautiful and vast and has a lot to offer usually im not into open world games due to repetitiveness but this one just got me hooked right in. my only issues with the games are it dose not fair well on the regular PS4 a lot of frame drops.... and of course the resolution but these are minor issues i am willing to overlook and i do hope it will have a better visuals and performance on the PS 5 overall great game i honestly recommend it =)
Wow was my expectation subverted. Never expected this near masterpiece. Three days in and I'm loving this. Graphics are astounding, gameplay is smooth and genuinely versatile, music is beautiful, combat is truly visceral and 'Heavy' and the world is probably the best looking open world I've ever seen. Characters are in the world of feudal Japan so not "full of fun" but are at least consistant to the setting. It's a simple revenge story at heart with many, many small perfect touches. Try bowing at Bow signs or corpses. A perfect palette cleanser after the dog's dinner that was The Last of Us 2. This is how you do a revenge story. Ghost of Tsushima Best Assassins Creed game You have ever played
I just want to walk around and take photos. Kurosawa mode is an amazing homage to the director. I prefer Kurosawa mode during missions and when wandering around the world j keep that color poppin!

Absolutely beautiful game! Great story, good mechanics. Solid 9/10 for me. I've never seen a legitimate 10/10 imo. That would mean perfection, but this game is close.
Amazing game in general. Beautifully made opend world that is jaw dropping at every corner. Enemy a.i can be stupid at times and stealth needs lots of reworking but defently recommend.
Amazing game, visually beautiful. The game play, combat and sword play mechanics are on point and are so much fun. The game has a lot of side quests, collectables and little things to do which plays out well and doesn't long out the game. The story is very good and engaging, feels like I'm playing a movie. Great character development. Lots of character weapon, armour, fighting and ability upgrades and customisation. The game is well balanced and just a great overall really fun game to play.
i think the game is pretty good.The story isn't the best I have ever seen but it's all right. yes, they dindt but something new to the board. but I think most people don't understand that they didn't want to. they yust mixed every good thing from the order games in putted some really good fighting system in to it.

This game is amazing, its gorgeous, its fun, the story pulls you in and you want more. I find myself not wanting to put the game down after a few hours of playing. The game makes you want to explore the world and find out whats around the next corner or where the story is going to take you when you get to the next village. Such a great game thank you Sucker Punch.
El juego con el que Ps4 se despide para dar paso a la nueva generación, sin duda el mejor juego sobre la cultura Japonesa y Samurais en el mercado. Con unos gráficos y banda sonora impecables, Ghost of Tsushima te transporta en completo al Japon feudal. Personajes con historias interesantes, misiones principales y secundarias variadas y poco repetitivas, sin duda es un gran juego para cerrar la actual generación. Lo mejor de todo es el sistema de combate, sin importar que sigas un estilo sigiloso, enfrentamientos cara a cara o una mezcla de ambos, jamás te cansas de las peleas.
No puedo ponerle un diez a este juego Aunque me parezca maravilloso. Para empezar, mi primera razón, es sin duda la cámara durante el combate. Esta se desplaza sin estar anclada detrás del l personaje, lo que hace que pierdas el objetivo en los diversos quiebros que realizas. Muchos de tus ataques irán al aire o en dirección contraria de donde querrías que fueran. Otro problema, y este va unido al anterior, es la selección de objetivo. En muchas ocasiones cuando te atacan varios enemigos a la vez , te ves obligado a salir corriendo, en primera instancia, para poder encarar a un objetivo, ya que el sistema de auto Target, no es capaz de realizar su trabajo. Esto unido a la cámara, es un adversario mas a batir en los combates. ya que conseguirán dejarte acorralado en muchísimas ocasiones, provocando que mueras injustamente. La verticalidad del personaje esta toscamente implementada, siendo buena la escalada a los tejados, pero tosco el descenso. Teniendo que dar saltos exagerados para bajar un simple escalón o descender de un tejado, cuando vas en modo sigilo. El ciclo día noche me parece una autentica locura, Siendo el crepúsculo, la tónica de este. Se echa en falta una duración mas real del ciclo. Y los cambios pueden llegar a ser demasiado bruscos, afeando un poco su belleza Estas son mis razones para no ponerle un nueve como un sol de grande. Al juego le faltan algunas horillas de puesta a punto y testeo. Nada que no se pueda resolver con un buen parche. Lo dicho esa cámara parece una broma de mal gusto. No me creo que la dejaran así queriendo
Amazing game, few glitches that will hopefully be fixed in future updates.A great story with likable characters and side quests that aren’t just the same fetch quest over and over again.


Ghost of Tsushima improves upon the open world formula of recent games like Assassin´s Creed: Odyssey and the like. It stands out with it´s beautiful visuals and great combat. Highly recommend! An extraordinarily gorgeous world that was a joy to explore. From the trees blowing in the wind to the leaves kicking up behind you as ride along some of the best, if not the best, looking sunsets. Even if the details on the individual models themselves aren't necessarily always incredible, but when it all comes together it creates something so good that the visuals alone make this game worth playing. While I did enjoy exploring all of the side activities like finding fox dens or hot springs to further Jin's strength throughout the game after 10-20 I started to lose interest in them, luckily though the combat itself redeem all of that. It feels responsive, requires timing and feels very rewarding when playing on hard mode. the 1 on 1 duels feel especially good and get closer to the feeling of Sekiro (even though it´s not as challenging for the most part), while the fights you´ll be having most of the time are closer to what you´d experience in AC, but a lot tighter and polished. While stories are not the most important part of a game for me personally, I do appreciate it when I play a game that has that. Ghost of Tsushima doesn't quite get there for me though. While it´s certainly not bad, it´s not the best either. While it´s enjoyable in the moment, the story doesn't really create any memorable moments or stories for me. The game managed to keep itself at 30 fps for most of my playthrough even though there were some noticeable drop during larger setpieces or cutscenes. Loading screens are impressively fast and you will barely get to the loading screen before you are back in the game again, unless you are traveling across the map between the different prefectures. Being the first game I've played from Sucker Punch I´m really impressed and I´m probably going to take a look at playing their earlier games. Can´t wait to see what they´ll create on the next generation!
Professional reviewers disappoint again - this game is terrific. Like most newer AAA games the graphics are exquisite, there are a multitude of costumes and weapons for your character. The combat moves are almost over abundant. But, the story line is so much better than some of the more recent AAA games. It is based on Samurai/Japanese legends and folktales. I guess not SJW enough for a the pros but perfect for the real gamer. Warning - combat gets more and more complex. If not to your pleasure you might be better off elsewhere.

Um espetáculo de game!!! Gráficos lindos e uma mecânica gostosa de se jogar. GOT conta com uma história legal e missões secundárias interessantes. Valeu cada centavo.
better then tlou2 let's get it to the game of the year boys! I love this game great graphics great combat good story the golf isn't as good as tlou2s but it makes up with a great story and good setting with things to do in the open giant open-world 10/10 would recommend

Visually stunning,Ghost is a rare game that prizes art direction over graphical fidelity and that's just fine by me.Combat is fantastic and I found the lack of a lock-on refreshing,although the camera can be janky at times.And to have an open-world without excessive bloat (Looking at you Ubisoft) such as level gating,endlessly repetitive missions and crafting is a little strange but not unwelcome.Stealth is almost the same as Tenchu from 1998,so it's basic but effective.Tools,upgrades,charms etc are pretty good,but only having 6 charm slots and 40+ charms so far (55 or so hours) seems silly.Also,not having dedicated clothing set quickchange options for combat,stealth and travelling becomes annoying.Customising your characters appearance is gorgeous,but limited to skins on 4 weapons total,and less than a dozen clothing sets.However,hats and masks are awesome.At least that aspect of the game is free.I can think of many publishers who insist on disgustingly expensive skins and weapons.The story is decent without being awe inspiring.Exploration is the best thing about this game,as is the combat system.You simply feel great playing it.I'm actually using photo mode for the first time in game and it's really great.This is a game all must play.
A fun game that does not "subvert expectations" or try to be divisive. Great combat and makes you feel like you are in the time period, even if it isn't 100 percent accurate. Game looks like a work of art with great contrast and lighting.Music is on point. I'd rate it a 9.5 if metacritic allowed it so instead I'll round up. Only negatives are camera angles sometimes and a little too much to do in the open world but that is more of a personal preference. Good job sucker punch, paving the way to be best first party exclusive now that naughty dog is a shell of their former self like bioware sadly. You guys made a great effort and exceeded my expectations compared to your previous games which were still good just not on this level. The fact you welcome constructive criticism also really shows your passion. Looking forward to your next game :)
It does need very minor fixes, but it doesn't prevent me from enjoying the game. Still one of my top 10 personal favorites. I love that it virtually has no HUD. It makes it more immersive. Stunning scenery as well
Ghost Of Tsushima is an amazing game. The graphics in this game is gorgeous. The story and the combat is amazing as well. Ghost of Tsushima has saved us from a terrible game named "The last of us part 2". Ghost of Tsushima has saved 2020.

Great to finally have a good game to get stuck into, around 25 hours in and I’m loving it, the combat is very slick and the addition of stances really adds to the samurai feel.
One of the best open world games I’ve ever experienced in my 25+ years of gaming. Sucker Punch has taken the best aspects of many games over the last 2 generations of consoles and put them together to near perfection to deliver a game that plays at a gamers pace. Along with that the quest design (minus a few flaws), combat, customization and fast travel system/load times make this game extremely addictive and allow you to play the game at your on pace depending on your style. On top of all that the island of Tsushima is absolutely amazing making exploration one of the best features of the game. My few issues with the game are with the physics. Most of the time unnoticeable but every now and then you’ll get some issues for example fighting on a cliff or rooftop it’s hard to yeet your enemies to their death due to an invisible like barrier. Other than that my only other problem with the game is a lot of the quests so far repeat the same formula, talk to a villager/ally, investigate the area for clues, follow footsteps or tracks, etc. These issues are easily forgiven though due to the game offering so much done right. I’m 25+ hours in and just scratching the surface of Act 2. Can’t wait for the rest of the journey and what comes from Sucker Punch/GoT in the future. Game Of The Year for me so far.
Game tem uma história rasa, mas bem trabalhada, possui uma ambientação fantástica e um gameplay fluido. Deixo como alerta as câmera do game, porém e de fácil adaptação.
Отличная боевая система, побочные задания проработаны не хуже сюжетных, множество активностей на карте, а красота картинки просто завораживает.

My favourite game so far it's fantastic i was waiting for a samurai game like this thank you sucker punch. Há muitas outras coisas que gostaria de dizer, mas ainda não sei inglês totalmente. Só tenho agradece por esse grande jogo.
Visually the most stunning game I’ve played, the combat is as good as if not better than games in the same genre! I’m not really a fan of photo modes in games but this one is incredible! My only negative for the game is the camera can get a little annoying at times.
This game is simply a masterpiece. One of those game that one you start playing it is just hard to put down. Great gameplay, great setting and great story, even the sidequests feel like full on questline. Clearly suckerpunch put a lot of love and work into this game and it shows at every second of playing. I haven't been this lost in a game since Red Dead Redemption 2. My game of the year!



One of the best games ever created, the story is fantastic this is why sony win every gen, they create the best worlds and stories, those graphics are sooooo beatiful u will never see anything like this, u really need to experiment this, gameplay is awesome, overall a masterpiece, you need this game its a must have and historic game, one of the best games ever created. thanks to sony for creating this!
Es un juego de 10. Para mí punto de vista tiene todo lo que un sandbox necesita, buena historia, buena longitud Ancho largo de mapa, buenas secundarias y una banda sonora excelente. De verdad que para mí ha sido el mejor juego de este año con diferencia. Lástima que no creo que se lleve el juego del año por el "mierd of us". SUKER PUNCH ha sabido demostrar que es un filón muy parecido a GUERRILLA GAMES. RECOMENDABLE AL 100%
Where to start? The diverse environments alone is enough to to get this game, every turn is a picture to a different reality where you can lose yourself, such a stunning game which rewards exploration, never seen a game pull off such amazing feats from having an almost no mini map on the screen telling you where to go to playing a flute on the fly, this game is gonna be one to remember, hats off to sucker punch for ending the PS4 era with a bang. The combat feels very satisfying each strike with your deadly katana feel realistic once you get the parries down it becomes greatly rewarding. Multiple stances opens up for interesting combos and more variety to strike down Mongols. Honestly I'd be here all day talking about the game there's just so much detail in the game which sucker punch did their best to hide from us so we get the chance to explore ourselves.
Great visuals, great art style, great animations, OK story, great open world, good combat gameplay. Basically if you liked Assassin's Creed Odyssey you're gonna love this more because it's just a better game in every way possible.
I haven't slept in two days!!! The game is amazingly beautiful, its pure eye candy, you will spend a lot of time just taking in the sights. The combat is good and doesn't get old as the game progresses, challenging Mongols and bandits to a duel, never gets old. It has its problems, but they are really minor and almost don't take away from the experience, it could use a New Game+ and a way to change the Day/Night cycle. In essence the game is what a game is supposed to be FUUUUN.
Классная атмосферная игруля, саундтреки на высоте, боевика очень приятная, не чувствуешь зависимости от прокачки, так что не ощущается как рпг




Pra mim, o melhor exclusivo do ps4. Teve Downgrade? Sim, bem pouco em relação aos gráficos, mas a experiência foi de longe a melhor que tive na geração!!

Melhor game de 2020!!! Com toda certeza esse game é único,nova experiência para todos, gráficos maravilhosos, áudio espetacular e gameplay sólida.


The only thing I don't like about the game is its dual endings. Apart from that, it does a very good Job of putting the player in Jin Skai's shoes and island of Tsushima, with the most beautiful world I have ever seen in any video game

I bought the digital delux edition because i am a terrible human being who has to have it at the absolute earliest he can possibly get it and because im not a hack game journalist reviewer who gets paid to play. I do not regret my purchase. I have painstakingly taken my time, in each area, *except for finding singing crickets and banners, i'll do those later if i feel up to it. Before i touch a story mission, i'm chasing foxes for shrines. Searching for bamboo to fell. While you simpls played tlou2 and soaked in it's horrid nature, I honed my samurai instincts with massive button mashing and dark souls rolling. Let me say this, I LOVE STANDOFFS. I LOVE DUELING, ITS SO GOOD IT GIVES ME YEW WOOD. the game is not perfect in the sense of facial animations, for some reason (there are 3 in my household who have [purchased this game and are playing it, including myself) My Jin has a fault, whatever he crawls under (building or cave) he cannot exit it from the front. Meaning looking at it. He is i suppose quite frightened of what may exist on the otherside (like my destination) i must rotate him completely around 180 and then exit feet first. i do not know why, this has been a thing. I have also discovered that occasionally jin decides that i didn't really want to grapple a tree stump or branch and says YEET and i fall. But it's ok! i expect a bit of mud to slog through in games. I'm running for performance, so i'm not set for huge graphic up-scaling like my roommates do. I get to see it in real time both ways, and i can honestly say this world is gorgeous. Now i love a good story, and I'll be honest I generally do not give a damn about horses. I felt bad when my nobu died. I didn't give a crap about Bartzabel (he was my horse in red dead redemption 2) I felt immense disgust in the betray brought about by my childhood friend (who strangely was not female, or in love with me, as the anime trope goes) Let me state this. Not everyone is heterosexual. There are characters with varying sexual identities and preferences. it is perfectly woven in and not shoved down your throat like some current games do (THE LAST OF...) it makes sense, and is glorious. Strong female characters are taking a stance, however there is one that i do not like, and only because quite literally the woman tried to kill me, ME, HER FRIEND, WHO HAS BEEN HELPING HER FIND HER FAMILIES KILLER. Of course Jin forgive her, BUT HE DO NO FORGET. (yes i said do no.) This angered me as this is my Jin and i don't forgive you i'd very much like to kill you. However Jin says oi, don't ever try and kill me again. Good stuff. I love the story, the easy to see whats coming nature of it is alright and i can get past that easily because i'm (for the most part) in control. I can chase it as i please The thrill of finding a mongol encampment and the warning "YOU HAVE ENTERED A MONGOL TERRITORY OF OVERWHELMING POWER, RUN YOU WEAKLING FOR YOU HAVE NO CHANCE, also this is story related so no you cant come in right now" Even when finding these places, i still try to take them on, many times i do quite well, before succumbing to the phantom archers. I get it, and it's fun to try and push it. I force my way through some of them, instead of taking a long trek around them. I'm lazy and i wanna go straight forward, and so i do. often it would have been quicker to go around, but i want to go this way, and i will do it, even if it takes an hour. sometimes. a lot of the time. generally speaking always. This is not a reflection of everyones experience, i choose this, and thus implemented the struggle upon myself. This gameplay is good. Them graphics is phat. Those story elements are cliche! (and tasty) I love it. For all it's flaws that remind me it's still a game, for all of it's immersion that pulls me in and has me commited to complete everything without feeling forced to do so, because if you want to climb the shrine it's up to you. If you want to chase the fox, it's up to you, if you want to follow the birds and soak in a hot spring or find some swag to pimp jins look, it's up to you. i don't penalize this game because of the few bugs i've had, they are not game breaking and just minor in the grand scheme. this, like god of war are 10/10. I even enjoy the music, and i'll say it's disabled through normal play but the game has forced implementation in other areas, I'm one of those guys that hates it because it robs me of immersion. But this, it just works so well and helps to ease me in, rather than distract and take me out. I love it. This wont be goty, The media and shills wont let it, but damn it, i'd vote for it. (yeah, even against cyberpunk 2077, they delayed till nearly the end of the year. Well they can be goty next year. im delaying my vote. it still needs polish, ya know?) TLDR: Did not waste my money. can enjoy this game in Japanese or English. A RARITY. Story better than tlou2.
This is an absolutely beautiful game one of the most immersive games I’ve played sense rd2 the story is good not the greatest but what sucker punch have achieved in its world is stunning. The combat is very satisfying and evolves even better the more you play With so much to do and discover. When I started the game I was straight locked on and glued to the screen for hours at a time, it has some influence of far cry and assassins creed but with a interesting twist of classic Japanese samurai/ninja style the almost no hud and The wind system is genius and just that much more immersive. The camera angles and lock on system During the combat do have some problems but overall it is a fun, beautiful and Immersive game and definitely worth a buy if you ever wanted to feel like being a samurai in a classic Japanese samurai movie.
Ghost of Tsushima- это игра для релаксации и созерцания живописных видов под приятную музыку. Отыгрыш странствующего самурая выполнен на ура. Мир в целом живой и интересный.

The fact that the mechanically boring, narratively inconsistent TLOU2 got higher scores amongst the gaming press than this fcking masterpiece shows why gamers now rely on voices of actual gamers: people who play a game because they want to, and not because they have to smash through it in a few days to get a review written. GoT is up there with Spiderman and the original Batman game as one of the best examples of open-world action gaming. SuckerPunch has truly evolved into ai industry leadi g studio.
I'm just wondering around in this game and forget to do main mission. Superb HDR graphic, Very addicting combat, interesting sub mission, very immersive, oh did I already mention addicting combat gameplay? I can't get anough of the sword play. Best game i ever play
First game after Witcher 3 I really loved. I enjoyed this game so much and hope that Cyberpunk 2077 can beat it because I feel empty after playing such a perfect game
The game is a perfect and beautiful game with high graphics it might have some problems but it is perfect in story and graphics
Одна из лучших игр на ps4 Получаю удовольствие на 100%



I love this game !!! This game is a computer game dream come true. The best and the most beautiful and the most interesting open world that was created for the needs of computer games. And this fight !!!! the most satisfying battle model I've ever met. I am enchanted by the title !!!
Phenomenal game. Of course the game looks gorgeous as we all know, but that's the least of reasons to buy this game. 1) The combat is great. Its simple to pick up but takes a long time to master. There are do many techniques and abilities to u lock and so much variety in the way you can tackle battles 2) Loading times are virtually non existent, even with fast travelling. Genuinely talking under 2 seconds everytime and I'm playing on a regular PS4 3) Side quests are great. No filler crap, they feel just as meaty as the main game stuff. Sometimes I genuinely forget if I'm on a main story quest or a side quest because the quality is just the same 4) This is personal preference but I adore the setting, the style and so the story and characters within that world 5) The map is just the right size (not too big) and exploration is fun. This is helped by the fact your horse handles better than any horse I've ever had in a game... Unlike the horrible horse controls of RDR2. The map feels so full, no vast empty spaces like BOTW. You'd struggle to go in any direction for more than 30-60 sec without bumping into a new town, an NPC, getting into a fight, finding a shrine etc Absolute top tier game
My personal game of the year!, The enviromentd,graphics,Combat,Stealth,Story,writing are all Fantastic with the only real issues being some Camra issues in tight spots and Some texture pop up problems... But so minor it doesnt detract from the experience for me. Story had me gripped entire way through and the Games Combat is the best Combat ive seen in a Game since Sekiro. Highly recommended
Ghost of Tsushima is the most beautiful game I've ever played, I'm delighted, loving it so much, what a beautiful way to show us this very important part of Japanese history. Thank you so much for giving me this masterpiece.
One of the best game I ever played. So beautiful and so intimidating at the same time. The action is so fun and there's so many weapons you can use. I hope there will be sequel. Great job, Sucker Punch!



This is an unreal game. I'm already at least 15 hours in and have not even thought about playing anything since release. The world is crazy immersive, the music is outstanding and the atmosphere of the game as a whole is out of this world. A definite must play. Great job Sucker Punch!
The game is astonishing and beautiful every blade of grass has moving parts making the game feel lively with the wind pointing u around the world makes the game a surreal experience. The combat has to be my favorite of all with switches stances to have better advantages for certain enemy types and I love using photo mode and all the options for it . But great game overall and thanks to sucker punch for that I love it.
Fantastic game! it's the samurai/ninja game I've been wanting from Assassins Creed but was never given. Honestly, Ubisoft should take notes. Sucker Punch did a great job. It's a beautiful game with satisfying combat. The story is well done. I have a few complaints but no game is perfect. The armors would have more impact on gameplay if it wasn't so easy to swap out on the fly. And the story makes you think your combat choices will affect the story and how your character is perceived. Unfortunately it doesn't but the story is good enough to make up for it. TLDR. Buy it. it's good
I really love this game,.. beautiful landscapes, amazing combat, and interesting story. A must buy exclusive game. It's amazing this title do not burn my PS4 pro even with those particles and everything moving around. This is ART. Not so happy about the camera or the lack of a lock-target system. But I will play this game til the last bit..
Loving every minute of this game, stunning visuals, soundtrack, story. unlike a lot of open world games, the side missions are done with a lot more class, i found i felt invested in the characters and story in the side missions as oppose to running errands like a robot. The landscapes breathing with life , sound design is fantastic. its beyond what I expected for this game.
Whew. What a blessing it is to have two masterpieces to end the generation. The last of us 2 then this. Only reason this isn’t a 10 is because of some janky animations at times. I was just spoiled with amazing animation from Tlou 2 so it kind of stuck out a little more than it otherwise would have. Story and Characters: 10/10 This is like playing through your favorite seinen manga come to life. Graphics: 8/10 (only because of wanky climbing and NPC animations otherwise BEAUTIFUL Game) Gameplay: 10/10 Some of the most satisfying sword gameplay ever created. Excellent boss battles, it’s Music: 9/10 Can be quiet sometimes, but when the music hits its wonderful ❤️.
it really makes you FEEL like a samurai (amazingly good combat and movement, LITERALLY jaw-dropping visuals and so much more) if you are a fan of japanese history and the idea of honorbound deadly samurai, you will ADORE this game


хорошая игра, хороший сеттинг, лучшая игра про самураев что я пробовал... и скорее всего еще не скоро попробую

I can’t even describe how great this game is. Incredible story that revolves around Jin’s struggle with honor, of course probably the best/one of the best combat systems I have ever seen in a game, great open world filled with a ton of side quests that are actually intriguing, insane looking armor sets that you genuinely want to go out and work for, and don’t even get me started on the graphics that compliment the photo mode soooo well. Overall for me this game wins GOTY easily.
Amazing This adventure game set in feudal Japan grips you from start to finish with its visuals and its story, which makes you feel like a samurai facing off against overwhelming odds. As Jin Sakai in Ghost of Tsushima, players quickly discover that his honor-bound warrior code simply doesn't match up when it comes to fighting the invaders. As a result, he reluctantly adopts unconventional methods and techniques to eliminate his enemies, such as using smoke bombs to vanish from sight, or stealthily infiltrating enemy camps. Over the course of the game, he'll merge and evolve these skills into a flexible fighting form, one that befits his new persona as the Ghost. It's incredible to watch Jin terrify enemies when he calls out opponents for a dueling stand-off and vanish before reinforcements can arrive. (Not to mention that duels highlight Jin's mastery of swordplay and feel pulled directly from a samurai movie.) It's also interesting to watch the evolution of Jin's sense of what it means to be a samurai in these troubled times, which isn't isolated to him only. His allies, who have varying degrees of morality and honor, have their personal codes tested with the invaders on the island as well. Without spoiling any details, there are some hefty and dark quests for revenge and redemption, which serve as a warning to Jin about the hazards of giving into his emotions, as well as how fully embracing the persona of the Ghost could potentially doom him to a darker path. It's torturous for Jin, and it tugs on the player's heart to watch his complex struggles of walking between both paths.

The game is beautiful, just to get that out of the way. Game play to me feels like if Assassin's Creed and The Witcher 3 had a baby. Story was good enough to get me to binge play through the whole thing (I have many MANY side quests, shrines, and unlockables to obtain yet). I gave it an 8 for two reasons; The first being that the character models during any interaction are often very lifeless. I would've liked a little more emotional/reactive facial expressions from the characters, especially the main protagonist; and two, a large number of the side quests are just.. go here and kill X. All of that aside though, which I am completely able to look past, I really loved it and looked forward to finishing all the collecting and exploration.
Um dos melhores jogos da geração. Desde the witcher 3 eu não ficava tão viciado em um jogo como estou em ghost of tsushmina. Obra de arte. Obrigado, sucker punch.



I’m not putting spoilers. The world is huge and beautiful. The gameplay is cool and just hard enough to make it feel satisfying. I’ve been waiting on this game since they revealed it. It’s amazing, buy it !!!
Outside of some small issues like not being able to lock onto enemies in combat, this game is superb in what it does. The combat is satisfying, the stealth is fun but failing it isn't punishing. You're rewarded with a sense of pride when you tackle your enemies head on, and the setting and world is absolutely gorgeous. Overall, it's just a fun game that feels rewarding and satisfying, made by a great studio that knows how to make a fun game.
Amazing game,art,combat,setting and story, just a perfect game, i had to stop and stare at the scenery many times and the combat was actually fun unlike other games, i am astounded by this game.
The game combines excellent combat similar to Star Wars: Fallen Order‘s and a beautiful setting. The story is well crafted all be it slightly predictable and the side quests leave me questioning what i should do next every time i finish a mission.
It is definitely a great game, with a lot of potential when some of the bugs are fixed. The bugs that are there do not take away from the enjoyment of the world, and the characters in the game. It is unfortunate that the critics, and the ideological users have given such harsh criticism to this game, compared to the last big recent game that recently came out. Unfortunately many people openly show their allegiances to the culture war, and decide to give some games with bad stories, a full 100 or a 10/10. This is a game that you should play if you like open world, and challenging game play.
Superb game i love it, great game play great graphics, one of the best games when ever i played


Great way to see off the PS4 pro I was a little sceptical about the game and did wait for the reviews, but my god they nailed it. For a machine that is no modern powerhouse, I have never seen such stunning use of HDR and looks. The detail, scope, audio, even the story is good...not Oscar stuff, but still very good. Side quests are in the realm of Witcher 3, not as good, but some are close. After the let down of TLOU part 2, I am happy to say we got a game worthy to see the PS4 off and usher in the PS5.

I don't know who designed the landscapes, but whoever it is, Suckerpunch needs to give them a raise. I went in expecting next to nothing and have been absolutely floored by the graphics and brutal sword play. Could use more dismemberment, but I digress.
Great game so happy to have a game to play after my favorite franchise decided to burn it down with its last garbage installment #RIPJOEL. Looks stunning no bugs no politics rammed in just good old game play definitely recommend
Honestly one of the best games I've play combat is fluid and the sounds make you feel like your the one actually slicing the Mongols. The musical composer deservers an award by himself. The music gives you a sense of feeling In every piece in the game. One of the best games I've ever played
What a Masterpiece

The most beautiful open world game I've ever played, and I expended hundred of hours with the witcher 3, Horizon zero dawn, Death Stranding. Ghost of tsushima is simply breathtaking, every single corner of this game is a wallpaper generator. And the combat? stunning, its simple and easy to catch up but brutal and really fun. Also the customization is amazing, lots of armors, swords and abilities to improve. The story is a classic Kurosawa story with beautifully written characters, and very believable emotions. Buy this game right now please, the best existing open world game.
this game is right up there with witcher 3, and rd2. combat is a bit easy and could be better but overall amazing graphics and the story kept be interested the whole way
This game is amazing! Perfect mix of action, RPG elements and story. Attention to detail is without equal and crowns this console generation as the best of the best. Stands head and shoulders above the vast majority of titles of this generations. This game can be compared to the best of the best, i.e.: God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn, Nioh and Sekiro (not saying the gameplay is like any of the above).

Ignore all of drugman's obvious cheap dick riders deliberately review bombing this just because they are salty its getting more user praise than drugman's game equivalent of the last jedi This game is absolutely amazing Huge open world exploration Amazing combat Rewarding stealth sections Satisfying personal arsenal Engaging story Rich in lore Nice characters Breathtaking graphics The only issue i have is the camera and no way to order my allies to say stay or follow or hide or run away from danger I needed to reset sometimes because of problematic ally ai Another i see is, i seem to lose my ammo even if i do not remember using them, it happens whenever i fast travel or other cutscenes like haiku, bamboo cutting and onsen Please fix Add a new game plus as well So that is my fair criticism sbout it Goodluck improving this amazing game suckerpunch!

Starting out with Ghost of Tsushima, the gorgeous landscapes & sweeping environmental art could be considered some of the best in video games. The same kind of beauty supplied by Witcher 3: Wild Hunt & even the Legend of Zelda: Breath of the Wild is here with the many locals & vistas you’ll visit throughout Tsushima. Multiple activities/mechanics are laid out before you to keep you busy in between your tales, main or side quests that push you forward through the story. Finding shrines, fox dens, animals to hunt for skins, etc. It’s genuinely hard for me to put down my controller due to all the things within the game that keep pulling in for some more good fun. Combat is equal parts fun & challenging, delivering some of the best blocking/parrying maneuvers since Witcher 3 & dodging/rolling borrowed from Dark Souls. A huge bonus is the Kunai ghost weapon that acts as a miniature projectile, granting either better opportunities for stealth or a surprise element in the middle of an encounter. The Bow is also a lifesaver that you’ll catch yourself using more & more throughout. Smoke-bombs for stealth, customization for your sword & armor, & some of the most stylized combat that pays it’s best respects to Kurosawa Akira‘s many samurai films. A gripping opening to a lengthy, yet straightforward story, throwing the player into the world of Tsushima with an objective & purpose. It’s a simple Avenger story, fighting back against an invasion to avenge & protect the people being killed. Shedding the bushido code/beliefs, you will provoke war against the mongols using shinobi tactics, making yourself the ultimate Ninja-Samurai in all the land. Sounds cool, right? Samurai fans, Ninja fans, Medieval fans, Fans of Japanese History/Culture, Weeaboos, & perhaps some anime fans would definitely love the world & the game as a whole. If you enjoyed Witcher 3, BotW, RDR2, or even Skyrim, you’ll enjoy Ghost of Tsushima. The only nit-picks I have are: 1. I sometimes wish lock-on was a feature. 2. The “arms” glitch isn’t frequent but funny enough so it doesn’t annoy when it does happen. 3. Walking through bamboo/small trees, making you feel like a an actual ghost. 4. NPC/Civilian AI is a little silly sometimes, falling over small dips or lighting themselves on fire multiple times. 5. No fishing but that’s just a me thing. At the end of the 8th Generation of gaming, we finish the inevitable lifecycle of PlayStation leading to rebirth. I’m happy we can end the PS4 with GoT & hope to look forward to greater exclusives by Sony.


I've played about 7 hours so far! And I cant stop! I play every chance I get! This game will be game of the year! It has the best graphics I've ever seen!!

I wanna start with the fact that the game is gorgeous, It's absolutely stunning and not because of the good graphics but because of the aesthetic and style and I've stopped numerous times just to look around and watch the beautiful imagery. The gameplay and the leveling system is amazing. Instead of level gating like the new AC games, it does in a more subtle way. instead of enemies having more health and more damage the bigger the number above their head is. it's clear if you go to an area that's meant to be seen later on in the game but nothing files forced with all these numbers. the gameplay is really cool and the way that you unlock the stances is really well done but I must say that the stealth mechanics are absolutely unnecessary and really simple and honestly not even fun. the story is not that great, it filled really simple and uninteresting and I didn't particularly like jin as a protagonist and the fact that even if you kill in a dishonorable way only the guys in the first Yuna mission you will be called the ghost and everybody will act like you are not fighting honorably throughout the game. the quests are not bad they follow a somewhat similar structure but I can apostate that the game is not filled with fetch quests and that the sidequests are really interesting.
Stunning visuals, compelling story, and innovated combat, I went into this game expecting nothing it didn't even seem like a game I would be into, boy was I wrong. This has been nothing but great since I started and I can't wait to explore more of Tsushima.



This game is beautiful, and I mean BEAUTIFUL. Sure, some people are saying that the mechanics are not perfect but, as I often say, with this kind of games where there's an significantly amount of difficulty, people tend to blame the game instead of their lack of abilities. Why do I give this a ten? I sincerely think this new IP is one of the best games of this year so far.

The game itself looks amazing. More than one time I died because I was looking at the scenery and not the Mongols. Combat is fun and after a few side missions that grant abilities it was even more fun. Its not perfect, a few times I could predict story points or dialogue because it hits certain tropes but overall the game is fun to play well made and definitely worth the time and money.



Absolutely fantastic game. The attention to detail is on another level. Great characters and a story to match. Great voice acting also. I was hyped for this game but it surpassed my every expectation. Other developers should take note because this is how you make an open world game.
i enjoyed sucker punch's Infamous series so much and didn't believe i will enjoy this game as much, but the magic worked for me and i just started playing


Very engaging. Great graphics, Great storyline, excellent character progression, combat easy to get the hang of hard to master. Everything I look for in an open world game. Few small bugs at launch but not game ruining

This is a slow-burn. Definitely a marathon not a Sprint. What ghost has on other open world games of similar ilk is the atmosphere. I never got bored with this game because it always kept me engaged with the tone and the setting. Honestly the colors are just drop dead gorgeous. The mechanics are fun as can be I never lost interest in a fight. The music selection and composition is spot-on. the only complaint I have in the only reason this doesn't get a 10 out of 10 from me is the camera control issues. If you are fighting in either a wooded area or bushes or even in close confines of buildings then there's a good chance that you're going to have a hard time tracking all enemies.


A breath of fresh air after the fiasco of tlou2 - incredible game all around, you can tell a lot of hard work and love been put into this game. Don't listen to the fake, paid critics and their poisonous agenda and give this game a try. It's worth it.
This game is beautiful. The story is very good and it pays homage to feudal japan very well. Theres a few bugs here and there but I only encountered 3. The combat is very fun. I only dont give it a 10 for the couple bugs. A 10 should be a perfect game which isnt possible either way imo. Either way this game makes playing just fun. Even the side quests are thought out as well as main quests. Go play this game.
Nioh and Breath of the Wild had a baby. It’s name is Ghost of Tsushima. The most immersive world I have every walked through. Combat is complex if you put in the time and take advantage of all it offers. Not the hardest and the ai could be better.
The story to this game is so good very rare do i ever get that interested in finishing a games story these days. It feels really good to play something new which isn't just the same as every over game out but with a different skin over it. Well done
This game will be remembered for years,sucker punch treat gamers with respect,and deliver a masterpiece,a game that IS visually stunning and Fun,and deserves ALL the praise It had received
This game is amazing. Beautiful to look at, great combat, great characters, great world, great writing. A must play for PS4 owners and a great way to close off the generation of PS4

I am around 10 hours into the game and I am really enjoying it. I only play around 4 games a year so I only buy games that really capture my interest. The world is beautiful, I am always stopping to just admire the open world. I am really looking forward to playing more of the game.
Great game, wonderful graphics, and an awesome storyline. As an Asian American I find it refreshing to see a game told in such a way that calls back to the hey day of old Japanese cinema. It's beautiful.

I love this game. It is a love letter to old samurai movies and takes the cultural depiction from a respectful place. Not a huge fan of the combat system but I get what they were trying to do.

Im gonna start off by saying this is my first review and I play on hard ps4 pro. The samuri combat is very fun and I would go as far to say innovative but the ghost combat is for me at least just a assassins creed reskin which is not bad but played out. The story is pretty good with some twists that not everyone will see coming. Graphics are fanamanol and the load times and save times are non existent. Tge minimal ui is great but there are some touchpad controls that course some problems when sneaking and sometimes enemy's get stuck on rock which messes up the soft lock melee forcing you to finish with ghost weapons. All in allfreat game worth the price of admission ino
Ghost of Tsushima exceeds your expectations in almost every way. Set during the Mongol invasion of Japan. It is a stoic tale about the love for one's home its people. GOT is visually the most gorgeous game of the generation. Open world exploration is nothing new, but does everything so well that it feels refreshing and engaging. One of the best melee combat systems next to GOW. Not much else to say, other than go do yourself a favor and buy it.

Increíble artísticamente, lo único malo es la cámara cuando hay más de tres enemigos en combate . Me gustó mucho espera un poco menos del juego por lo que supero mis expectativas ampliamente, con una buena cámara y un par de pulidos en el combate era un 10 clavado
I can confidently say that this is the best game that I have ever played in my life! Playing a game that took place hundreds of years ago in Japan with Japanese dialogue makes the game really immersive and the Japanese voice acting is actually pretty good. The combat feels smooth and easy to remember, the map may look so small, but the island of Tsushima is so big that I have to rely on fast travel most of the time to get from point A to point B which I love. I’m always the kind of person to do the main story in open world games first, and then the side stories, but there are so many other interesting stories from the people of Tsushima that I still have so much more of the story to go through and sometimes even have to force myself to actually play the story for a bit. The game that is based in Japan that was made by Americans is so good that even the Japanese themselves loved the game! There aren’t really any complaints from me since the only problems that I have with the game is just me nitpicking the smallest things.

Mecanicas de combates extraordinarias, me recordo mucho al metal gear rising, los escenarios, la dificultad, y el modo camara tambien puede atraparte, excelente juego para finalizar la era de la ps4.
I have never played a game by Sucker Punch before but I had heard great things about Infamous and Sly Cooper. They really killed it with this game. I have waited for game like this for what feels like 10+ years. The exploration feels like Breath of the Wild, where you get distracted constantly on your way to actual story lines. The world is breathtaking. The Samurai combat is very satisfying. There are few basic enemy types but they get progressively more complex as the game goes on. You also learn more complex combos, worries, and dodges to help. You also get new items the can help with Stealth and crowd control if you get into a jam. If you enjoy the Samurai setting, just get it. If you like Assassin's Creed, get it. If you like Breath of the Wild, get it.
Great game, the combat is different from other games in the same genre. I personally believe in perfectly represents the old school samurai movie combat.
I have put in 30 hours so far and have thoroughly enjoyed every minute of it. Mechanics are fluid with minor hiccups that can break the moment at times and yet the encounters are satisfing none the less. Story is engaging for where I am at currently. Sucker Punch deserves the praises it has received. Hopefully this game turns into a series.
Awesome game. A mix between Assassin's Creed and Souls. Fluid fighting mechanics based on timing and stances over button spamming. Diverse combat and boss fights. The story is based on a historical era often not used in games but is perfect for the plot of this story. Smooth frame rates and graphical performance. All in all an excellent game.
Visuals have to be the best that I’ve personally seen on the ps4. Combat, and combat progression is top notch. Story is captivating, and character development is great.
A very good game, not perfect of course but in my opinion the best PS4 exclusive this year. A good tale of revanche and HONOR. There is some bugs, there is some camera issues but the game deserve a go. Good job sucker punch!
Better than last of us part 2 Fact!, Why cant every game be like Ghost of Tsushima they put in love and care to this game the story is decent gameplay is fun visual amazing solid 9/10 this game no game can be 10/10 last of us 2 was fake review to praise toooo much real talks Im not a crowd Follower Im Passionate on the games i like this is my first ever review on metacritic Neil Druckman is mad his game was good Ghost.

Хорошая игра. Нормальный сюжет, без продвижения завуалированных модных повесточек. Приятный геймплей.графика не супер, но это я к недостаткам не отнесу, она вполне приятная. В общем игра вышла очень даже хорошей, рекомендую

Not a fan of open world games because I find them to be too unfocused but this game is an exception. It is so easy to jump in and out of side quests while maintaining the main story that it doesn't get boring. The combat is great. Only gripe is that the camera is not perfect. I find Jin will sometimes not attack the target I want but this has never taken me out of the fun. This game is stunning to look at, A+. Standoffs are some of the coolest encounters in any game ever. Music and sounds are just as high quality as the visuals. Resource collection is actually not a pain in the you know what and doesn't drag the game down. So much to say about this game but everyone just needs to experience it for themselves.
From why I’ve played so far combat is amazing except for when you get bogged down by giant groups of enemies and it becomes a dodging game. Graphics are crisp on my PS4 Pro. The fire and water effects are just beautiful The authenticity and reverence the game gives to it’s source material cannot be praised enough. This game is great and if you’re going to trust a score trust the user score, the Japanese critics and the Japanese user score. Do not trust the negative game critics score who say you must be offended by this game and if you’re not they will be offended for you.
Very simple.. better than expected, unlike the last of us part 2. Fun but deep meanings, ingame atmosphere is fantastic, long story which is not boring nor repetitive, makes you understand how a samurai thinks, it drags you into Japan’s 13th century way of living and most importantly no SJW and LGBT stuff.
Truly an AMAZING GAME. Graphics are stunning. At first the gameplay felt very simple and not much too it, but in hour or two into it. You unlock new moves and throwable items that make the gameplay much more fun. I’m personally half way through the story and the story starts off really fantastic. After the beginning, it does stumble here and there, but it has it’s really good moments. These stumbles in the story so far aren’t too damaging to the game though. There are plenty of side missions, a lot of the missions are just clearing up spaces that have mongols, which is ok. The best side missions are the mythical ones. Mythical side quests lead you on a journey to find missing armor or weapons. These side missions usually lead to a beautiful location where you come across a boss to battle. To me, Photo Mode has been one of the best features in this game. There are so many beautiful locations in this game already, and photo mode allows you to even make it more stunning. This game is a very solid 8/10.

Ghost of Tsushima is a gorgeous way to end the PS4 generation. The game is gorgeous, with a very engaging story that makes you grow attached to Jin and the other characters. Jin is a fantastic protagonist, his story throughout the entire game is amazing. It is about choices and sometimes he faces the consequences of the choices he makes. The gameplay is fun and i never found myself getting bored, in fact I was always very excited when the standoff option appeared and I was about to face more Mongols. I very much enjoyed leveling up the legend of the ghost to unlock more technique points to make Jin extremely powerful. The open world is bar the most pleasing in this game. It is gorgeous, though it does make your ps4 fan very loud. I won't dock any points for that however because I find myself stopping constantly taking pictures of the beautiful world that has been crafted by Sucker Punch. Even after game completion I was still finding new things I hadn't discovered before. Only negative I can say about the game is the camera system Is a bit of an annoyance when you are in battle. Other than that the game is a masterpiece for sucker punch and my game of the year so far! If you have a PS4, or waiting on PS5, go buy this game cause it is fantastic!

Absolutely brilliant! I have been excited for this game ever since the E3 trailer debuted in 2018 and I have to say its so good. The graphics are stunning, the open world is vast and there is so much to explore. The story is so compelling and has me hooked! While I consider The Last of Us Part 2 to be my favourite game of the year and this generation this is pretty close to it. Highly recommended
A beautiful open world, story, and a satisfying combat system. Can easily get sucked in spending hours of just walking around the island of tsushima. Sucker punch did a good job with this one.
This game gets a 8 from me because the jeremy from the quartering sent me here. No i haven't played the game just my opinion that this game gets 8.

This game is so damn good! It’s up there with SpiderMan and GOW as one of the best PS4 exclusives. Everyday I look forward to coming home an playing it. The story, graphics, gameplay is all done so well! Don’t listen to the haters that never played this. Guarantee most anyone who plays it for a couple hours will be hooked. Sucker Punch delivered the PS4 swan song and it Slaps!
Joined just to review this game, as someone who was tired of open world games, this one really kept me in it for hours on end. The visuals are stunning and the combat felt good though the mechanics were nothing new, everything is rewarding and the story is typical samurai movies which i love. this is the first game in a long time that has kept me sucked in for hours without wanting to take a break. sucker punch have moved up the ladder with this one!
Ghost of tsushima est pour moi le cadeau de sucker punch à la PS4 ! C’est un jeu qui te donne constamment envie d’y jouer et d’y retourner . L’histoire ainsi que le monde ouvert est pour moi de la même qualité que Zelda Breath of The wild . Plus le joueur s’investit et plus le jeu le lui rend , je pensait prendre une claque par The Last of Us part2 mais ce sera Ghost of Tsushima qui me l’aura mise ! Le dernier joyaux de la ps4 avant sa retraite bien mérité ! Un grand bravo sucker punch. ! Passer de Infamous second son’s à Ghost of Tsushima c’est juste incroyable !
Really nice combat and setting. Open world is filled with things to do and explore to the point when you forget about main quest line and spend 5 hours just looking around.
Estou no Ato 2, e que game incrível! Bonito demais, a cada passo dá vontade de tirar um print. O combate está excelente, nos trailers não mostraram muito do combate, mas ele é uma das melhores partes do game. São dezenas de inimigos de uma vez, com muita variedade, habilidades, ferramentas e posturas. Jogo muito viciante e com uma excelente ambientação e história. Todo jogo de mundo aberto tem sua repetitividade, seria injusto tirar pontos por conta disso, já que é o padrão esperado em jogos assim, além disso, as missões nesse jogo são feitas com muita qualidade, com objetivos bem ambientados na proposta e com boas recompensas. Ponto negativo apenas para a câmera que atrapalha um pouco nos combates, mas já consegui me acostumar. Estou jogando com a dublagem em português, pois está excelente, em outros jogos normalmente eu prefiro o original em inglês.
Seems beautiful and very easy to get into the open world element in the stylish sword play may make the world seem to much like the worst part of assassin's creed, but the twist of the japanise Ronin like adventure seems very innovative as it was only experimented with the star wars croma.
The technicalities are mostly spotless, the gameplay is enjoyable, doesn't get dull or too repetitive, it manages to keep your interest up. It is visually stunning, but I mean that artistically, not that "Oh, that grass looks so detailed" kinda, shallow way. That connects into aesthetics: I might be biased since I'm a sucker for this period in Japanese history, but I absolutely love everything about it. I hear that some people aren't into the story that much, and yes, it's on the simpler side, but I don't think it should be more than that. A simple story, without any needless parallels with modern times. No, the developers just let the "kids" live out their Samurai fantasies. And that is perfectly fine. That's what video games used to be all about. It's quite silly that it's not the case anymore... This is exactly how you make a game that is well received by the community. And as we all know it, in the age of access media, that's what matters :)
This game is incredible. It is an exceptionally beautiful game in every way. While there is a small number of bugs, but compared to many other high-end games nothing game-breaking. Combat does have some repetition, but compared to other titles that are coming out around now, it is a better experience.
After playing the last of us part 2 I wanted to quit gaming for a while till cyberpunk came out and a friend recommended this game to me as I was on the fence I was afraid it was gonna be another terrible title like the last of us part 2. MAN I was wrong I’m only about 6 hours in and this game is fantastic. Very few games make you stop and appreciate the environment the graphics are just so beautiful to look at. The combat is pretty good and stealth not dark souls hard but can be annoying sometimes. The story is pretty solid and the characters you eventually grow and care for. Plenty of things to find and side quests to complete and no pay walls or SJWs ruining this game it’s perfect. Sucker punch truly outdid themselves and deserve GOTY with how much hard work they did.

10 out of 10. Perfect combination of visuals story and soundtrack. The combat its a bit simple but not problem with that for me
No lbgt BS... No weird ass sex scene that involves 2 dudes... Pretty much the opposite of what mainstream media wants in 2020.... Game isnt perfect, but leaps and bounds ahead of another big game that released last month.
Great game! It's graphics are great. The lack of a HUD is a bit different, but lets you take in all the sights and sounds of the game. The game is open world, which I love and hate. Although combat is seamless, I will complain that sometimes, I'll want to block/attack someone but because there's no lock on feature, I'll end up attacking someone else instead. That's my only complaint, but once you've gotten used to it, it's not a big deal. 10/10 game.
I would have to say that this game is just a beautiful in story telling, character development, and just the sheer beauty of this open world. I think that the main thing I appreciated the most though was the environment and the graphics for a console that has been out for a long time. I also enjoyed the whole combat scene. Although I'm not a big fan of the whole parry combat thing, i must say it is hard at first but eventually you’ll get the hanged of it and becomes a little boring/repetitive but its fine. The reason why it is fine is due to the story and the sheer amount of side missions/quests. Another thing that I really loved was the character development in the story. Jin in my opinion was my favorite character because you get to see him grow into this boy into a lord but sadly losing it and being a outlaw. Another thing about all the characters, is that all the characters were unique in there own way and not one character that was in the game felt like a boring character and wasn’t just a burden if that makes any sense. I also liked how you can enter into a base and choose how you want to handle this base like being stealthy or going all in. I found myself just riding around and taking my time with the game and never felt like I wasted my time. I also liked how you can learn new techniques as your legend continues to grow. However, one thing that I disliked is the camera. The camera for me was kinda janky if that makes sense and there was some bugs here and there but it is a VERY VERY small issue and isn’t that big of a deal. The message of the story was I guess you can say Revenge because Jin is trying to kill the mongols that took his land and killed his people but i’m just guessing and have no idea what the message in the story is. The ending in my opinion was very good and I like how the game gives you a option on to kill your uncle or let him live to which gives you some replay ability. Another thing I appreciate is how there isn’t any agenda like some other game that people like to compare this game to. Now i don’t have a problem with any SJW or anything of that sort but it just doesn’t belong in video games, and i think people forget what video games are suppose to be. A fun game where you can take your mind off of real world issues and just enjoy yourself. I hate how people like to compare this to The Last Of Us 2 to which I understand if you wanna compare the 2 games in the stories/characters and the characters development but other than that, its just unnecessary or immature. This is however a great game and is a great final exclusive for this console generation and is a great game for 2020 because MAN....did we need something fun and enjoyable this year of video games especially after The Last Of Us 2 came out.
Alright, 72 hours in, i think i got enough to add my 2 cents. Game is absolutely gorgeous, first game iv ever stopped countless times just to look at the art and vistas. definitely the best looking game ever created. As a samurai & japanese nerd, the gameplay and theme was right up my ally, who doesn't live sword-fighting eh?. did i mention how beautiful the biomes are? wow.
Feels very much like Assassins Creed, which isnt a bad thing. Combat can get repetitive, but boss fights are pretty good. Graphics are amazing, story is compelling, combat is standard.
Game of the year so far. edit: After passing through most of the story, I've decided to raise my score. It's not a perfect 10. It has flaws. But it's far closer to 10 than 9, and it deserves that higher score. Story: Probably the weakest part of Ghost is its story. That's not to say the story is bad, it's just very generic. You're a samurai. Your lord is captured. It's revenge time. That's mostly it. That's not to say there's nothing else in the world. In-fact, the secondary stories are quite good, and I find myself more eager to play the side-quests than the main-quest, because those secondary stories really come alive. But the main story is very standard. There's also a ton of collectibles and nice discoverables if that's your thing. Combat: Combat is interesting. I'm a Soulsborne lover, so coming into Ghost I was wondering how they would approach combat and whether I would enjoy it. I'm pleased to say that the combat is great. It's not perfect. It's not 'challenging'. It's never going to give you that earned satisfaction of a Sekiro. But, it is great at what it wants to be. Combat is essentially Batman: Arkham, but with a little more involvement on the player side. Swordplay is nothing new or groundbreaking, but it feels authentic and competent, and always feels rewarding when you make a perfect parry, or slice through an opponent with Heavenly Strike. You 'feel' like a Samurai when you approach the enemy. Your movements, your parries, your dodges: they all feel like the actions of someone who is, at the end of the day, just a well-trained human. You're not a god. If you screw up, you'll die. If you try to rush headlong into twenty foes, you'll die. If you ignore the archers in the back, you'll die. You're not Batman, teleporting from foe to foe; you're just a man, and you have act like. That means things like stealth and gadgets (think kunais and bombs) are more than just secondary items to rack up cool points, they're life-saving weapons that can even the odds when faced with powerful enemies. I always felt like I was 'doing it right' when I threw a kunai into a couple foes to lower my immediate threats to a single opponent, or sniped a lonely guard from afar with my bow so that I had less to deal with when it came time to assault the horde. The game rewards you for using your arsenal and skillset, instead of giving you three moves that are your 'good' moves, and then a dozen secondary moves where you could take them or leave them. Speaking of stealth: it's good. It's not great, but it's good. It has quirks. It's no Splinter Cell. But, at the end of the day, it never made me feel like it was holding back my enjoyment of a section. Plus, the sections where you are forced to stealth were well-crafted and had clear paths where it simply came down to execution. It was a welcome addition that worked properly 95% of the time, and the few times it didn't were easy to overlook, as the combat is so enjoyable. Graphics: Here's where Ghost wins the game. You hear it often: 'this game looks so real', 'the best looking game ever', 'a true next-gen experience', etc... attached to other games. More often than not, it's just noise. Yeah, games have looked better and better over the years, but at a certain point it just becomes background information. Who cares how real that tree look anymore? All the trees look great. It's just another tree. So when I say this next sentence, understand I do not say it lightly: Ghost of Tushima is the most beautiful game ever made. Yes, I said it, and it's not hyperbole. Understand, I'm not saying Ghost is the most graphically advanced game ever made. It's not. There are sub-par elements, textures that aren't quite as sharp as they could be, draw-distances that are a bit exposed in places, and facial animations that are good, but not top-tier. And none of it matters. There has never been a more beautifully realized world in the history of video games. There are, quite literally, not enough words I could use to describe how amazing the world looks. From fields of purple flowers flowing in the wind, to thick, full grass that you can get lost in, I have more than once simply had to stop and watch the world 'live'. I have never felt like a world was more real than the world of Tsushima. Birds fly about, deer get lost in the trees, and the wind carries fallen leaves along the trail, unconcerned for you, the protagonist. It simply 'is' and it is amazing. But it's also more than just the beauty of the world; it's the grit of the bloodstained battlefield, the wreckage of Mongol-destroyed villages, the flowing tassels of your samurai armor: it all comes together to make the best looking game I've ever played. You'll know what I mean when you rise up a hill and see the moon cast white through the smoke of a burning city. Go buy Ghost of Tsushima. Even if Cyberpunk supplants it, you will still have one of the best games of the PS4 era. 9.5/10

Ghost of Tsushima might just be my new favourite game! .. the only reason for a 9/10 and not 10 is due to the slight awkward camera angles sometimes during battle, but I’ve gotten used to it and it’s not something that takes away from how beautiful this game is, I spent almost 3 days just exploring without finishing the first act, side missions aren’t boring or repetitive, some of the areas look really pretty, this is a game of the year contender for sure!

I'm here putting my opinion on ghost of tsushima so far on Act 1 of story is really great. I played it when came out to Sunday night as well half today because couldn't put it down or change games. At of end it I went to it is great but some minor bugs in the game for the enemies. Everything as for other things it a beautiful game graphic wise.
I'm loving this game. The combat and the visuals are triple A. The only thing that drops the game down 1 point for me is that there's a bit of repetition that gets tiring at times. Game is recommended.

Played it for 10 hours in two days, have to set the graphic for best perfomance for higher framerates on my ps4 pro to get the best experience for fluid gameplay. story so far is good, the fighting/sword fighting feels absolutely amazing, and the scenery, my god i abused the photo mode just to take great picture. the bad side is sometimes the camera just feel awkward especially in fighting, zoom in too close and my screen just seeing bushes, can't see the enemy, some minor movement glitch not game breaking. so my conclusion is this is the samurai game that i always wanted, it's one the best game for the ps4 this year.

It’s really a 9.5 so far for me but since I can’t give that I’ll give it a 10. The game is stunning, visually breathtaking, the draw distance is extremely impressive and makes the game feel almost next gen. Also the loading times are so quick and I heard they actually made loading take longer than it could have in order to give people time to read the tips. My two favorite things about the game are the use of the wind rather than the minimap and the combat system. The wind allows the game to feel more immersive and rather than spending half your time looking at the waypoint you can enjoy the game for all its beauty. The combat is extremely polished, fluid, and realistic. It feels like I’m actually using a sword. Also there is something really fulfilling about use the stone stance to take down a duel wielding enemy than switching to water stance to kill a sword user and then rapidly firing an arrow to headshot an archer. One of the most enjoyable combat systems in any game I have played. Also a small thing that I really lived when your following and nod and start running they will run as well and if you get on your horse they will get in a horse as well. No more slowly waiting for the Boca to finally get to their destination. Only big complaint is the camera. It can get a little wonky at times and I’ll be fighting but only staring at the wall of the building but you get used to it over time. Lastly I really don’t like how many reviewers were upset about this Japanese game being made by an American company. I consider myself extremely left and it just seems like a dumb thing to nitpick. If anything this game shows extreme appreciation for samurai culture and is also mostly based on movies rather than actual live events. Also if you complain about this game being made by an American company but have taco night at your house, you should definitely double check your cognitive dissonanc
Beautiful game. Combat never gets boring as you are unlocking new skills, tools, stances and abilities. The open world is full of exploration, quests and many things to do. This is hands down one of my favorite games of all time with everything blending together to make an absolute great gaming experience.



The first thing I noticed about Ghost of Tsushima was how impressive the graphics looked. I went in blind. I went in with no hype. I knew it existed and that was it. But I started the game and the intro captivated me. Fire rained down from the skies as brave samurai charged their most dangerous enemy yet and they killed them without mercy. Then I actually played it. The combat is refreshingly unique. It has some Assassin's Creed influences, but the stances you can choose from to counter specific enemy types, the combos, the unique moves, it's amazing. The customization of armor appearances, weapon appearances, and even your horse's saddle is excellent and each pattern is uniquely Japanese rather than being a generic Japanese pattern that so many other games have fallen into using. Each color palate for the armor and weapon choices was made with loving detail. It's not perfectly historically accurate, but it uses a historical setting to write a fictitious story that is both realistic and enthralling. The characters feel unique. Jin feels a bit single-minded in the first act, but this is well-balanced by various characters such as a master archer and a woman who had her family massacred and a thief who helps him from the start. They teach him various lessons and he grows as a character as they grow. The dialogue is witty and some characters are truly gems.

Ghost of tsushima is one of the best looking open worlds you will ever see. As a Japanese American, it was the perfect depiction of my culture's history, it accurately shows the kind of lives Samurais would live in feudal Japan. While at times the game can become monotonous, it only does it before proceeding into an engrossing sword fight. Loved it! Would recommend 10/10.
The game is simply beautiful and thoughtful, and details are breathtaking. Adventure and exploration are brilliantly mixed together. Met all my expectations. Combat is smooth and precise, and not impossibly difficult as in Sekiro. I haven't come across any bugs or glitches so far. What's not to like? I'm simply addicted to it :)
I'm not much of a gamer but GOT def changed the past few days for me- all I've been doing is binge this super fun samurai game! Buy it now! My only regret is I didn't buy the deluxe edition for the super sweet blue armor w/ fur.
Challenging combat a new an interesting game feature of the winds and the wind tracking system. Open world exploration is fun and is supported by game design. Best game of 2020 dont sleep on it!!!
Thanks to the developer for the atmosphere. Immersion in authenticity, as far as possible. The soundtrack, picture and setting in general sometimes distracted from the voice acting. I was so impressed by the beauty of the performance. Some gameplay jambs, such as passing through the fire without damage, upset me a little. The horse does not go into the water. You have to dismount, cross the river and call the horse, saddling it. The game is not boring. I didn't want to end every session. Thank you Sony for the positive emotions and immersion in Japanese culture.
for me its a 10. Even when i don't like how they managed the lip sync in Japanese, and other small details, like the subtitles of dialogues in Japanese between NPCs the game is freaking awesome, the patrols encounter frequency, bandits encounter frequency, wild life spawning is just right. The rhythm of the game is perfect from my point of view. The plot is rich and the characters and fit perfectly. im really entertained with how and when you get side quests, everything feels so fresh and organic you can easily spend 5 hours without noticing it. (even when some lame ass critics give it a 60 and say they saw this game features repeatedly on PS4. where? well, potato.) Losing yourself while watching how Jin Struggles with the path he is taking in order to save his home. God ths game is soo good, i haven't enjoyed a game this much in years, It isn't a pain to play like the last PS4 exclusive, which i can´t even finish because of the absurd plot that makes playing the rest of the game pointless.
This game is surely a love letter to the Japanese culture and you feel that in every aspect the game try to shows us. The visuals are absolutely mesmerising, the battle mechanics are very well done and fun to play, the music is very well written and executed (perfect for maximising the game experience). The only thing I couldn't get was, why isn't this game with no 4K option? I play my games in a 4K TV and sometimes playing 1080p games can be a little harsh on the textures though I'm loving the experience of playing this game. P.s - The "photo mode" should have a photo button, so we can render the photo without the need of pressing share button, cause not it'd be called a "print screen mode."
The only thing i really found annoying about the game was the lack of lip syncing with the Japanese voices with the character models. I absolutely loved the choice of the VA for Zoro being the VA for the main character. Otherwise its a beautiful game.
If you want a game that makes you question whether you should sleep or keep playing it, play Ghost of Tsushima. Yes. Is that good. Minor cons: the soil texture in some places look like a 2015 game. And some random enemies look too generic like in an early 2000 game
It’s the RDR2 of the Japanese culture! Best graphics I’ve seen yet on ps4, gameplay is fun and exciting searching for new areas is so captivating and just grabs your attention.
This game is pure Japanese entertainment art at its finest. It is one of the most quintessential love letters to the late great Kurosawa. I could be lost for hours wandering around the the beautiful depiction of Sucker Punch's portrayal of Tsushima. Though of course it is not seeped into historical accuracy as much as it strives to, it overall delivers what it promises to fans; the samurai experience. The game's ability to place you in a state of zen using its vibrant display of colours and tranquil music right before you are smoothly transitioned into intense combat feels exactly like the classic samurai movies of old. Though of course this depiction of a samurai is not pinpoint accurate from a purely historical point of view, Kurosawa's classic movies was for the most part how I perceived how the life of a samurai would be. And this game delivers that feeling to a tee. Finally, this game for me deserves a 10 as it harkons back to why games were made in the first place; to give you an escape from the real world. The fact that this game is so immersive gives it the ability to easily pluck me from reality and drop me straight at the centre of 12th century Japan. In this day and age, it is rare for a game to offer such an escape without dragging elements from the real world that initially drove you into gaming in the first place. Unlike certain Sony Enterntainment games that drag you down with agendas, this game puts a lot of love into making players happy, and players such as myself love it back.
It’s really good game but they could have give us better graphics than they did.Im am 25 hrs in myself and love it ,also it has some glitches were your arms look tied to your sides, and the stand off glitches some times, and the weapon UI needs some TLC,the yellow bird also glitches.the developers need to patch in some fixes and you will have a Zelda like game .love it and , I would recommend buying it.im going to 100% this one .
I recently got a PS4 to play Bloodborne and other PS exclusives. Ghost of Tsushima is easily one of the most visually impressive games I have ever played. I am still in the first act, but I have been taking my time with the story so that I can explore and see what the island has to offer. The exploration system is unique. The idea that you improve your character by soaking in hot springs or chopping bamboo is a really immersive way to level up your character. I love the way the game shows immense respect for Japanese culture and way of life. The lack of HUD is great for immersion. The combat does take a bit of time to learn, especially parrying. I would say the parry system is fine. When it works, it feels great. It isn't better than the parry system in Sekiro: Shadows Die Twice. The voice acting is very good. I wish that there was a lock-on feature. The customization is very vivid and expansive. Can't wait to unlock more items. Like the lack of carry weight limit for your materials. I'd say that my only complaint so far, is that the enemies can be very stupid when they are chasing/looking for you. Especially if you have items that boost your detection speed. So far, this game looks like it has high potential to be one of my favorite PS exclusives
ghost is a freaking masterpiece one hell of a game so beautiful to look at and excellent to play if you were disappointed by the last lesbian 2 then here you go ghost of tsushima is a masterpiece indeed
Monumental return to a great single player experience. The combat is difficult to get used to at times. Once over that and with the awe inspiring landscape to help you on the way, you will find as much a history lesson as much a gripping story of intrigue and perseverance to be on a console in a long while.

Amazing, beautiful, and fun. Sword-fighting never gets old! This is quite possibly my favorite game of all time. It ranks up there with Breath of the Wild and the Batman Arkham series. Brilliant. Thank you so much, Sucker Punch, for this gem of a game. I am absolutely floored!
If you like the open world Assassins Creed or Far cry games and thought you would really like one set in feudal Japan... this is what you’ve been waiting for. I happen to be a fan of this type of game and am enjoying it immensely! it’s not perfect, I’d probably give it a 9.5 but this site won’t allow that so I went with a 10. AI can be a bit dumb at times. 1 mission in particular made very little sense from a strategic standpoint... gather a bunch of peasants in a certain place to keep them safe... then do something specifically to bring the enemies there and now have to protect said peasants... derp! combat is pretty easy to get the hang of, but if you don’t practice some of the block and dodge moves you will have a really hard time with the duels you end up in. The Japanese voice actor is the same guy that voices Zoro from One Piece, and does a great job. It seems to be historically accurate so far... the breed of dogs used by the enemy even seems to be accurate. overall if you like this genre then this will be a great one to pick up!

Confession I have not beaten the game yet but I still recommend this game, here’s why) Yes I would recommend buying this game if you are fans of the genre. Story(only beginning and premise spoiler The setting is great as it adds a fantasy story to the real Kahn/Mongol invasion of Japan spear headed by Genghis Kahn grandson (historically Real) Kublai Kahn of 1281. The villain of the story is (believe to be fantasy based on the a quick google search of Genghis) Khotan Kahn who invades Tsushima, an island cut off from mainland japan. You play as lord Jin Sakai, nephew to the lord of Tsushima and broken but not dead samurai. After the other samurai were wiped out in the games first battle and the your uncle is capture by the Khotan, Jin is saved by a thief, Yuna and takes the task of saving his uncle and Tsushima... Gameplay and setting As a samurai before the 1300 to feudal era of japan, you are train to fight with a katana, you are also taught to fight enemies face to face, however as samurai of rules are honor bound the Khotan Kahn’s use this to his advantage as he is villain learn Japanese traditions and uses honor as leverage against Jim and the other samurai. Also you will have attended with the regions bandits, later Ronans. And luckily you have to methods of approach: -Samurai- This is done in the standoff mechanic were you have to use reflex response to land the first killing blow not to early or late, the mechanic takes time to adjust to but it works and is great to build your resolve meter, the games in combat health regeneration meter, faster. In combat as the game progresses you get different fighting stance which are good for each archetypes, and the game gives you hints in the form glowing lights to let players dodge or parry certain attacks as blocking isn’t capable of defending the player from heavy blows. However it is fun, difficult but not impossible to learn and enjoy. However there is a bit of difficulty when engaging an enemy group with a hostage as enemies will attempt to kill the hostage giving the player time to rush defense. Yet there is another way of engaging your enemies, even minimizing the danger -Ghost of Tsushima, the Worlds first generation Ninja- Although 2 samurais later suggest to maintain honor, your friends such as Yuna, recommends the stealth approach which is seen as dishonorable yet let the players decide with no repercussions. This were the Ghost of Tsushima legend stems as Jim is in an era were the idea ninjas or organization of ninja do not exist or are publicly known and accepted by the shoguns. However although characters will story wise note disapprove your actions, you are actually encourage to approach missions, outpost, fortresses, and capture farms with stealth. To reiterate, if the Mongolians, Ronan or bandits see and engage Jim, one them will attempt to kill the hostage in said areas, mainly farms or villages and if is kill another will attempt it seconds later. From assassination skills to using tools in out of combat, Jin can level the playing field or eliminate all the forces without drawing alarms. -Open world and content- The games open world have secret and many collectibles. With side mission being relay via Npc you rescue on the road or in the nearest village. From increasing your resolve by cutting bamboo sticks events to following golden birds/foxes to special shrines and hot spring to increase your health. -Bugs- The bug I can currently see is the one literally on your were quiver is missing but nothing game breaking. -Characters- The characters are well crafted and literally bring life to the era and region. The characters do well to bring life to the story and I have very little gripes what’s so ever even the very very few LGBT characters. -progression- Leveling linear and is done by upgrading your health, resolve, skill/technique unlocks and gear. -Criticism and conclusion- 9/10 a must buy if you are a fan the genre or love the era it’s based in.
Havent had this much fun since RDR2. Combat feels amazing, good story, nice customization and a beautiful world that is easy to enjoy, since you're not told what to do by a HUD constantly. Some of the traversal and interaction animations are lacking and can result in immersion-breaking glitches, these are only minor though. Feels like a game for gamers by gamers.

I generally don't like open world games. There are very few that hit the mark for me, but this is certainly one of them. Let's get the nitpicky negatives out of the way. The game could really use an FoV slider. The camera is generally far too pulled in for my taste. The camera also has a tendency to get in the way during prolonged or close-quarters combat because the game doesn't apply any transparency to objects very close to it. Again on the camera, it would also be nice to get rid of the acceleration effect, although it's fairly minor. An option for lock-on would also be appreciated, since in large encounters, it feels like I'm spending most of my time trying to re-adjust the camera so I can see after every dodge or parry, which is to say every 2-3 seconds. Also the game tries to wrench control from you occasionally in combat. There were moments when I was pushing toward a certain enemy to attack them, and as soon as I hit an attack button, Jin would swerve wildly to the side to attack a different enemy. A huge no-no in any action game imo, and far too common in recent generations. This is with aim assist OFF. My only other real gripe is that the lip-sync goes completely out the window when you switch the voice acting to Japanese, making it a little jarring during cutscenes. Now onto the good. There's a lot, so I'll just bullet point it. -The visual style and presentation are absolutely gorgeous -The story is gripping, tense and well-written -The game's atmosphere is top-notch, from somber lonely moments to epic cinematic highs -The sound design is impeccable, with sounds being a massive aid in combat for anyone with a good setup/headphones -The soundtrack is beautiful and ranges from haunting, subdued tracks to blood-pumping themes that perfectly fit the mood of war and combat -The voice acting is very solid, even in English. No bottom-barrel funimation **** -The combat is fluid, intuitive and rewarding. -Almost all the upgrades you can choose feel substantive and have real effects on gameplay. -Exploration is fun and rewarding, both because there are many things to find and do, and because the world is so incredible to look at. -Nearly every encounter can be tackled in a great variety of ways, making every build and upgrade path feel 100% viable. -Skill is rewarded, and a skilled player with relatively few upgrades can manage encounters that will bury a lesser player with a far more upgraded character. -Animations are fluid and for the most part blend into one another very well, with only minor exceptions. -Overall, it feels much more immersive, enjoyable and unique than the vast, vast majority of open-world AAA drivel on the market. Also, bonus points for: -NO identity politics. -NO **** ironic millennial humor. There are far more positives, but I think this pretty well sums up the game well enough. Play it. Play this game.
I didn’t have many expectations coming into this game. I grew up with sly cooper and loved infamous, the studios previous titles. WOW did this game amaze me, easily the most beautiful game I’ve ever played visually and the combat is fluid and fun to learn. Love this game, quickly became one of my top ten games of this generation!
For me this game is tied with witcher 3 for my favorite game ever, the duels the exploring and the story are incredible. Worth every penny. And for sure this is the best looking game out there, the graphics and the scenary are unmatched.
This game is amazing so far. I'm roughly 25 hours into the game and I had to review the game. The game world is beautiful the black and white camera filter is extremely well done, the AI can be a little puzzling at times when they catch you in stealth, and I would probably give the game a 9 due to that but man I am having touch fin, way more fun than I had playing tlou2
Ghost of Tsushima didn't thought much of when they announced it and now when i have played it i feel like fool. Its has beautiful graphics a truly stunning open world and combat amazing besides bow need some fixing in that area and what impressed me the most was loading time i mean to be able load open world game that fast without a ssd is impressive and the story is great sometimes you forget if you doing main storyline or side story it because of the way build the world. The issues I had with game was mainly bow combat they need to fix that and little the way your character move when up against a lot of enemies that it.
I’m around 15 hours in and wow! Such a beautiful game in every way. It’s graphics and scenery are stunning! The combat is complex, adaptable and satisfying ( I thought I wouldn’t like it). The character movement is solid, Stealth, looting, climbing it all works. The world is breathtaking and story is everything you’d want from this era and genre. Like sitting by a camp fire and hearing legendary tales of Japanese warriors and myths. I’m trying to take my time and make sure I get most the side quests and upgrades ticked off which I dont usually do. But I want to upgrade all my stuff so I can be the baddest version of Samurai that I can :) Most likely my game of the year easily, play it!!
This game is pretty friggen sweet. While personally it doesn't remake the open world genre. It is just so fun and immersive. I love there is no mini map or hud. It let's you really drink in the world with your eye balls. My two biggest quibbles would be that stealth is meh, while itis fine it feels kinda generic and the camera. Grrrr.
What is there to say? Beautiful graphics, fun combat, and a completely immersive open world. I've spent countless minutes just looking around, and checking things out. Upgrading by learning new swordplay techniques, rather than just the typical RPG skill trees is a nice touch as well. A must buy in my opinion.
This game is awesome dude, definetly a MUST PLAY if you own a PS4. An exposition of what art looks like portrayed on a game. The graphics are not the best, not an expert but you may validate that with "digital foundry" but the game looks amazing, the lights, the shadows, the eviroments, the art direction, the art style. It's amazing. The combat is good, not the best, but is fun, not boring at all and challenging if you play in hard mode (which I advise you to do so). The exploration is really satisfiying, with the most stunning looks in this generation, and the feel of epicness, feels like some kickass samurai movie The story is really good, not the best but i could empathyze with jin, the drama and what motivates him to try saving Tsushima so bad. Also the side quest offer a nice story that gets you into this world. It has enough content for you to spend a 100 hours on this game. The main story could only take 30-40 hours. The photo mode has enough options for you to get a wallpaper of the game every 5 minutes so at least give that a shot once. Character personalization is badass Some people say the game gets repetitive.at some point but for me that was never an issue. The combat sometimes doesn't feels good when you face a group with many enemies The stealth is not as great, is fun but I rather to go like a samurai. Some enemies AI is amazing and some other is not quite as good Some side missions fall into the same open world mission cliche even when we have some other games like the witcher wich managed to go over that issue. Some FPS drops here and there but nothing that ruined my experience. Fan noise as loud as you would think Game gives you what sony promissed with every single one of their exclusives, a fun game with an awesome story which makes you feel like you're playing a movie. Feels great to be a samurai and is fun to be a ninja. And it looks like a next gen game. If you like japanese, samurai and ninja stuff BUY THE GAME NOW If you only like open worlds or looking to have fun better wait for sale but please, please give it a try, 1-5 hours of your time will be more than enough to decide if it's worth it or not
Makes you feel like a samurai! Honestly though, game is awesome. Brilliant combat and art direction... The most beautiful game I have played. Actually considering visiting Tsushima
A beautiful experience that is actually a joy to play. The moment to moment gameplay is never overly frustrating like Sekiro, but I'm finding a decent level of challenge requiring me to make the most of the skills and equipment. It's not very often that an open world game has me wanting to explore but the beauty of the the world and the level of detail makes wandering very enjoyable. Also, the world never feels empty, unlike other similar games. My biggest complaint is sometimes the camera has some issues in small spaces and could use some work. So far I'd say this is my game of the year. Would definitely recommend.
Kurosawa & Kobayashi would be amazed by this beautiful game, definitely a GOTY contender, I don't have much to say, just try it for yourself, it's beautiful.
This game is just amazing! Not perfect, haven't seen a perfect game, especially on the fist week of release. But nevertheless it contains great cinematography, engaging narrative, beauuuuutiful world and is overall a FUN game to play. Also both English and Japanese voice actors are doing a fantastic job! As I write this I am even more eager to return to playing. This is one of these games that is interesting to watch and interesting to play... while being glued to the screen.
Pra começar, a comparação entre Ghost of Tsushima e Asssassins Creed não faz sentido. Só surgiu devido aos traillers onde o protagonista tem a habilidade de realizar os assassinatos furtivos. Os últimos Assassins Creeds são bons jogos e tem seu valor, mas Ghost of Tsushima é diferente em muitos sentidos, e diferente pra melhor, muito melhor. A imersão nos 2 mundos, tanto no japonês como no mongol são incríveis. Depois de se acostumar com o combate, parece ser um dos melhores nesse estilo de jogo. A maneira como tudo te leva a querer explorar o mundo da ilha, e conhecer cada vez mais sobre as 2 culturas é um grande adicional ao jogo Muito acima das minhas expectativas

Very good game for the most part. The graphics and landscapes are beautiful, combat is diverse and well developed; smooth, satisfying and enjoyable. Side activities and interesting and unique. It taught me a good deal about a historical time period I knew very little about and portrayed the strengths and weaknesses of the Samurai’s moral code effectively. The story is good too, albeit quite predictable and bland at some points although it is serviceable. Nevertheless, I thought it did well at presenting the story of a warrior, one of the last of his kind, attempting to unite a resistance against genocidal invaders. Not perfect by any means, but quite good. Smaller issues are related to bugs and smoothness. Sometimes the frame rate may drop and some movement controls are stiff such as climbing and traversal. Dropping down from ledges is a nightmare and the horse only has two movement options of a fast walk and a fast gallop. This could easily be fixed in a bug patch or an update. Pretty good job, and I think it could be a strong contender for game of the year. The six years of development paid off very well.
Great game, I enjoy how beautiful the open world is. Combat feels a little monotonous like the ai blocks onc in a while your attacks. So it feels not 100% realistic. But, it's a fun game. And story is interesting and to have the option to be stealthy is a great option. Its not a perfect game. But. It probably get patched and be almost a 10. Hope we get a sequel on ps5.
Solid game where I have spent countless hours just exploring and doing little quests that feel rewarding and pure fun. I’ve also spent quite of bit of time with the photo mode making some really cool pictures with the vast editing effects there is on offer

The story takes itself a bit too serious at times, it's probably the weakest area, but the gameplay itself is solid, the open-world is extremely impressive, maybe the best overall graphical experience on the PS4, and their novel approach to navigation is refreshing.


o game é impressionante, tem apresenta ótima jogabilidade e gráfico, esse game é uma obra de arte, tem seus problemas mais nada que atrapalhe sua diversão
I'm about 20 hours into the game so far and haven't even left the first part of the island, but even as of this moment, this is the best Samurai game I've ever seen. The game is insanely beautiful, even on my almost 7 year old Playstation 4 and 10 year old slowly dying plasma screen. The gameplay is satisfying and the progression of skills certainly keeps it interesting. That said, having almost done everything on the first part of the game world, I've almost reached max level already, but even when the character is maxed out I feel like that won't have any impact on the fun and satisfaction I get from playing it. There's a notable level of progression of the enemies as you level up, gaining new armor, weapons, they attack you during duels at different speeds than the lower level enemies, and while not much changes, there's still plenty there to keep you on your toes. The equipment system is absolutely fantastic. Given that you only have to upgrade one Sword, two Bows, throwable capacity and whatever suits of armor you wish to have, each upgrade can afford to cost more resources and feel even more satisfying when you achieve that new level of power. It's a refreshing breath of air from all of the recent (mostly failed) looter-shooter genre games. All in all Ghost of Tsushima is as perfect a Samurai game as we've gotten to date. It's beautiful, fantastic, and immensely satisfying to play. That said, it does have its downsides, bugs included, but compared to something like Fallout, they're very few and far between, and don't take you out of the game nearly as bad due to their low frequency. I've experienced the Yellow Bird that leads you to certain destinations flying into walls and buildings then disappearing to reset its pathing. While mildly annoying, I only noticed it one village where I assume they programmed its pathing before building the village. Aside from those few, very light gripes, I'd sat it's the best PS4 exclusive, and a perfect ending to the PS4's legacy. PS: As a quick side note, I've noticed people on various media sites griping about racism and historical relevance of the game. It may very well be a Samurai game made by Americans, for Americans, but it was never intended to be a historical fiction. It was made as a love letter to Akira Kurosawa and his masterful Samurai film-making. As a Kurosawa fan myself, I can say that they followed his example closely and made the best Samurai game they could with what they had to work with. This title should be applauded and enjoyed for the game that it is, and not booed for not being the game that woke media is saying it should've been.
Assolutamente da giocare....uno dei giochi piu belli di ps4... Unica critica alcune cose potevano farle meglio ma gia cosi e tra i migliori di questa gen. Plauso ai sukker punch...
Amazing game. It’s reminds me of one of my favorite games.. Witcher 3 except you’re a samurai and it’s even BETTER. Not sure how many hours I put in but I know it’s a lot and I haven’t even really touched much of the main story LOL a ton of stuff for you to do in the game and a TON of cosmetics to find along the way. The game also looks REALLY good on my LG 4K HDR Display. Although some of the textures and animations (like walking up hills) aren’t as sharp as let’s say.. the last of us 2.. it’s still an extremely good experience.. If you’re a fan of samurai movies and the culture you’ll get sucked into this game 100%
The only thing I'm honestly upset about is how this game snuck up on me. I can't remember the last time I was genuinely engrossed in a game to the point where I wanted to take in and savor each moment, vista and conversation. The vibrant colors and variety in "biomes" is astonishing and the combat feels punishing but rewarding once you get it right. However, I would recommend bumping up the difficulty once you do get the hang of things as the combat mechanics can eventually make you feel very overpowered. All in all I couldn't recommend this game more, especially a game that respects the culture and history of an ancient past of my country.
This is quite the accomplishment by Sucker Punch, I've played roughly 17+ hours and have yet to scratch the surface. I seemed to have had an idea of what to expect before playing this, however once i started the game and after the initial 2 hours those expectations were completely blown out of the water. The open world of Tsushima Island seems limitless, the landscape & colors are beyond beautiful, the non-arcade style of combat is rewarding, the more you play, you begin to feel as if you've been fully immersed into what it feels like to be an actual Samurai. This game is a breath of fresh air, it's something i didn't realize that i had wanted within a game until playing it. Although there may be bugs and glitches, this is common with every game, as not everything will be perfect. From side quests to main missions, or free roaming and exploring the landscape I haven't felt any repetitiveness to a degree, there is always something to do. IMO this has been one of the most enjoyable games to play since RDR2 by R*, I would recommend this to anybody looking to get lost in an open world game with a story line that is loosely based on the Mongol invasion of Japan in 1274. Thank you Sucker Punch & Sony, this is without a doubt going to be a GOTY candidate.
Ghost of Tsushima is a Gorgeous game dripping with atmosphere and some of the most beautiful landscapes put to this Medium. The setting of Early Classical Japan is an almost time machine like travel as your dropped into a war of culture and morality, though not as in depth with its history like its contemporary Assassins Creed Odyssey but nonetheless still captures an interesting setting that isn't too well known.# The Graphics are for the most part Stunning with every blade of grass and every cherry blossom that you come across rendered splendidly even for the weathered old warhorse that is the PS4, one place of lacking would be sadly the water though considering you come across little of it it this is not a deal breaker. The Story is Simple yet fun with a plethora of fun characters with even the villain coming of likeable. the use of a Japanese cast even for the English voices is a nice bonus as it gives respect to this proud cultures history which is further shown by the Addition of the Kurosawa mode that with the flick of a switch turns your 21st century colourful world into a ode to the Legendary Japanese director Akira Kurosawa which just shows the respect that sucker punch have for the culture they where representing. Now finally the game play. Overall there isn't anything too revolutionary about the controls, Stealth is fun but feels like a copy paste from the previously mentioned Assassins creed. Combat is still fun with the multiple stances aiding you in combat allow you to become a samurai if only on the stormy isle of Tsushima Overall this was worth the wait and is strongly recommend this Now finaly the Gameplay


Игра мне очень понравилась своим сетингом, геймплеем и вообщем всем. Интересный сюжет и хорошие побочки, красивая графика и плавные анимации.1010
Omg this game makes me speechless when I first played. It was like I was in the game myself fighting Mongols on the beach, and defending tsushima. I couldn't stop playing until I realized that it was 7 in the morning and that I've been playing it for 8 hours straight.

What a great game! I loved the story and was very immersive. It had some very touching moments that made this game shine. Combat was amazing, and the art style and graphics were beautiful. The open world was one of the best I've seen done. GOTY so far for me but waiting to see what cyberpunk will bring.
Easily my favorite game of 2020. This game justifies the concept of video games being art. 20 hours in and not a second of boredom. Characters feel real, combat is intense, side missions are memorable, and the sound samples are incredible. Thank you Sucker Punch.
Beautiful game, the love and respect for japanese culture, a few bugs here and there which are kind of normal in open world games but notting game wrecking, great gameplay with lots of progression and learning, a lot of collectables to keep you exploring the gorgeous world of tsushima.
Lets get the bad out of the way. Crawling under stuff and getting stuck and ladders are horrible to use and some npc’s repeat. Now. The rest of the game is engaging, gorgeous and pure **** fun to play. Give me more. Loved it. Boredom level hasn’t hit me yet and in this bout 25 hours.
Это моя игра! Лор, сетинг, боевка, то как тебе это все подают.... Без слов... Особенно балдею от мгновенных убийств с одного удара. ШИКАРНО!
what a game! easily the best third person combat system ever made , a blend of Assassins creed/ Spider Man and Batman Arkham Knight. Silky smooth and enough new elements introduced through out to mix it up. The story is serviceable and does the job but the Beautiful locals makes up for it. Enjoy the journey and the little moments. One of the games of the Console generation for me, Don't miss it !
Bueno la verdad que es la primera ves que compro un juego con la temática samurái, llevo más de 15 horas jugandolo y la verdad te pierdes en el buen sentido en los paisajes que tiene el Japón Feudal. Jugabilidad es muy buena, aunque la cámara creo que le faltaron varios ajustes, las armas me encantaron tenés una variedad que no sabes con cuál quedarte, de por si el la espada es mí favorito. La historia me está encantando ya de que por si se nota que han metido énfasis en lo que fue la invasión mongol. Me hubiera gustado más la sincronización del audio japonés con la cinemáticas. Este juego tiene que ser jugado en audio japonés es un desperdicio si lo jugas en idioma en inglés o español. Me encantó como el viento te guía hacia tu rumbo, al principio es confuso pero después te vas acostumbrando y no es tan difícil como lo aclaran los análisis. La banda sonora que puedo decir....es una maldita hermosura...tanto como la tranquilidad y el momento de pelear. Graficame un diez de diez, disfrutas muchísimo el mundo abierto yo no he parado de quedarme con la boquiabierta de lo hermoso que es. El personaje logré enfatizar mucho me gustó sin dudas alguna. Las misiones a pesar que puedan ser repetitivas no la sentí pesado ni nada porque me encanta el.sistema de combate. En fin para mi sin dudas mostró SukerPunch que tiene algo mágico en este juego y espero que se sigan animando a más clases de este juego. Si te gusta los juegos con historia y temática samurái este es tu juego.
Completed an upwards of 50 hour playthrough; main + all side quests/ tales and I absolutely LOVED this game. It became a 'spiritual experience' being alone with my thoughts while conquering its enigmatic world, which only a few other games have done for me. I'm proud of Sucker Punch and can tell how much thought and effort was put into this one. Wow!
I’ll start by saying that I’m an average gamer (I usually don’t spend hours playing every single day). With that said, I absolutely struggled putting down the controller with this game. Stunning environments, decent combat difficulty, open world environment without copying areas just to make it larger, and a very engaging story had me locked in right from the start. I strongly urge others to get their hands on this adventure immediately.
One of the best Samurai games I have played. Combat is great and the environments you explore are very interesting and detailed. Engaging story with good character customization and a great soundtrack. Only negatives really is that the camera, particularly indoors, can be wonky and difficult to control plus the occasional hiccup of the AI's path finding and some other things like visual effects. However these negatives can be easily be fixed with patches and could make an already great game even better.
Jogaço, ótimos gráficos e jogabilidade. Baseado em uma historia real. ........................................................................................
Man, what a way to end the PS4 than with Ghost of Tsushima. This game is fantastic, the graphics, world, gameplay, and story are all incredible, I can see now why it took Sucker Punch so long to finish this game coming from Infamous Second Son and it's expansion. If you want a realistic samurai game with awesome, and unique combat that also offers stealth gameplay better than the Assassin's Creed series, look no further. And to the people screaming "cultural appropriation" you are being ridiculous, all the big Japanese gaming journalist outlets absolutely love this game, so keep it to yourself.
Я полностью прошёл эту игру, и могу с уверенностью сказать что она безумно понравилась мне, странно, потому что казалось бы , все механики , приемы, боевка уже были раньше , это ни в коем случае не прорыв и не новшество, но это играется все так лаконично, а выглядит просто потрясающе, каждая локация, каждая арена с боссом и каждый новый пейзаж просто опьяняет своей красотой и эстетикой. Я видел и слышал много отзывов о том что игра наскучивает через какое-то время, но я никак не могу себя отнести к сторонникам такого мнения. Мне не было скучно ни секунды , все бои выглядит и чувствуются энергично и кинематографично, поединки с боссами отличаются великолепным визуалом и атмосферой , и в целом весь игровой процесс в открытом мире Цусимы доставлял мне удовольствие на протяжение всего прохождения. Поставил восемь баллов лишь потому-что на максимальном уровне сложности враги не отличаются умом: тупят, иногда нападают по одному и ОЧЕНЬ долго замечают тебя когда ты проходишь задание по стелсу. В остальном это прекрасная игра с невероятными пейзажами и пропитывающей тебя атмосферой и духом Японии тех времен.
What a Game! The gameplay is a perfect mix of RPG, sword combat, stealth and open-world exploration. No two side missions are the same and everything contributes to either the story or character development, both of which are superbly written. You can even write haikus and meditate but the subject always adds to the story and character. The combat controls are simple but there are so many skills and combinations that allow for endless variations on combat. Finally, the graphics are amazing and the picture mode is hands down the best created to date.
J'ai trouvé Ce jeu super. La bande son et très bonne. Les combats sont excellent. Meme si il y en as beaucoup ca ne mas lassé a aucun moment. L'histoire et également bien. En fait je crois que c'est mon jeu préféré. Alors oui j'aime le Japon mais je suis sincère.
A visually stunning work of art. Ghost of Tsushima is game of the year material. The combat is simple at first and easy to learn but has surprising depth. The art direction, voice acting, storytelling and open world are top notch. At times Ghost of Tsushima reminded me of some of my favorite games growing up like Tenchu. Metal Gear Solid and Shadow of the Colossus. Unfortunately the stealth combat is standard. From the preview trailers the stealth seemed reminiscent of Metal Gear Solid 5: The Phantom Pain. However it's not quite there but that's not a game killer by any means. I look forward to seeing more of this fully realized world.
I liked too much about this game. so I'm gonna list everything I didn't like as much. - Act 1 was a bit bloated. Missions felt overlong at points, however the pay off was insane. - The camera control was extremely weak - A I was a bit funny - Repetitive missions here and there. this didn't take away from the amazing game sucker punch has given to us. Act 2 and 3 are some of the best written stuff I have ever seen and the gameplay is also highly addictive and something I will never forget. This is on par with tlou2 for me. Both are my GOTY. yes I loved the last of us 2, sorry angry Joe.


One of the best game of this decade! The story its great,the graphics 10/10,most of the time I spend to screenshot the nature. I wished we had more liberty to dialogues but its ok anyway.The game its a masterpiece!


One of the most interesting if not THE most interesting open worlds I've ever played in a game so far. Beautiful graphically, the story is interesting and the combat and so fluid. So happy this game exists!
The Witcher, samurai version! Just jk. I can see that they were inspired by the Witcher 3. And it is not a bad thing. And I won't compare it to the Witcher as it is a very different game. GOT is an awesome game overall. It is entertaining and the story has a sentimental aspect to it, incorporating the Japanese culture and environment is a fantastic way. The graphics are beautiful and the characters are memorable. SP did an amazing job and I really hope there will be a sequel! NaugtyDog needs to take notes! Cheers to all!

Stunning visuals. Love the combat in this game and kind of reminds me of Tenchu which I used to love playing as a kid. I only have a few minor issues. The game does start to get somewhat repetitive after a few hours of playing. Would like to see a little bit more variety with the quests. Map is pretty big so you can spend hours exploring and finding new weapons and headbands. Sucker Punch did an amazing job with this game.

Just art! I love it so much. A nice samurai story. The Tsushima island is just wonderful.The only minus is on the gameplay it's just need a little more refined.
Great game that invites you into the world of Japan and its culture. Graphics and story are good quality, and so far voice talent is done fairly well. Combat is fun and rewarding to me. I felt like I was becoming more skilled with the Katana. The camera is not very friendly, enemies are hiding off screen that come in and hit you. During standoff mode you can end up with a tree branch completely blocking your view and you won't be able to see the enemy to react to their strike. The map is large which is great but I get lost easily and find myself referring to the map a lot. I am still in the first large section of the beginning map and would like to see more recognizable land marks and a wider variety of terrain to help determine different locations. Having the story interact with locations more would help make them more memorable. When exploring it is a lot of the same terrain despite some sections with different colored trees/flowers. Movement for climbing mountains, ledges, ladders, and so forth is not very fluid. Many times I get stopped completely at a small ledge or will completely pass a ladder and need to turn and run back to it to attempt to climb again. Each of these issues makes the game frustrating at times but still playable. Hopefully some updates will fix them. Overall good game with some movement and camera mechanics that need adjusting. Hopefully next game will add some new terrain with more memorable and noticeable landscape "markers", and find a way to incorporate them in the story. The land is by far one of the most beautiful I have seen in a game and they definitely need to use that to their advantage next time. Edit : After playing the game more it has become extremely old...same thing over and over and over again. Will probably not replay again. Moved on to second island. Was expecting something different from first island. Its not, more of the same. Not a bad game but can't handle the repetativeness. Struggling to complete it.
I've barely finished act 1, still have plenty to do in the first area and I've logged almost 30 hours. I've felt like a samurai ninja god for about 27 of them. This game is beautiful, the story so far is excellent and the gameplay is fun, peaceful and relaxing... Considering I've just finished ng++ of Sekiro, it's been lovely.
Ghost of Tsushima feels perhaps a little too ambitious for the PS4 and often feels like it wanted to be more but current gen limitations keeping it from doing so. I imagine a PS5 or PC version would make this game legendary. Very beautiful game, well told story and fun combat kept me hooked regardless. I highly recommend Ghost of Tsushima.
First 5 seconds into the game I knew I wanted to play it no matter what. I would have given a 10/10 if the Japanese voice synced with the animation, a great option to have though but unfortunately, it did not give me an "authentic experience" as the English voice was genuine enough ( with a bit of a western-style )
An amazing story, looks stunning and the combat is brilliant. I couldn't recommend a better ame than this I have had the pleasure of playing this through in its entirety and was not disappointed
THIS GAME IS BEAUTIFUL! The phenomenal look of this game Is the icing on top of the cake to this game, gameplay is brutal and fun to play/watch. An experience thats definitely worth the cost. Another great PS exclusive, 2 in a month, what a time for PlayStation, can’t wait for the PS5!

Jogo excepcional! Tem seu defeitos, mas um jogo extremamente divertido e viciante de se jogar. Prós: Ambientação lindíssima, gráficos em sua grande parte excepcionais, história envolvente, personagens carismáticos, mecânica de combate fluída e intuitiva*, trilha sonora digna de filme de Hollywood, lugares lindos a serem explorados. Contras: Alguns bugs esporádicos com NPCs, texturas em alguns momentos ficam horríveis (geralmente em diálogos). Física dos personagens em atividades diversas ficaram toscas (dos combates ficaram boas). Câmera com posicionamento ruim nos combates. E por fim o alerta de que os inimigos te viram ficou muito lerdo (as vezes vc passa quase na frente dele e não é visto). Oportunidades de melhoria: Na questão dos combates poderiam melhorar a responsividade da direção dos ataques, de vez enquanto o personagem ataca o vento e perde o foco, prejudicando a experiência. Melhorar a situação da IA dos inimigos e a fluidez de movimentos corporais dos personagens (estão muito robotizados).

The story and characters are really well done and the open world is great to explore, but the best part of it all is the combat, the game has a few glitches, but their not bad enough to take away from the game.
This is my first time on this site and the first gaming that I'm reviewing is the ghost of Tsushima. I absolutely love this game and enjoyed it. I'm glad my brother purchase this game for me. The open-world visuals; designs and graphics in this game are amazing. The gameplay and fighting mechanic. reminds of a much older video game that. I owned for the PlayStation 2. This game is a must-have and worth definitely worth investing the money into play. This game is the best game to come out and end the era of Ps4.
The game is gorgeous. The scenery is lush and the lighting is amazing. There are going to be a good number of people who are going to spend hours in photo more. The sword play is good and learning new stances allows for some variability. It's certainly worth a play. It feels like a proper send off for the PS4.
Breathtaking graphics,compelling story,interesting main characters.All of that coupled along with a very interesting and refined gameplay. Some of its drawbacks are: Not the greatest enemy AI ,combat can be a bit junky sometimes and a repetitive gameplay loop. However it's a game worth playing as long as you have a ps4.


Graphics 10/10 Design 11/10 Animation 7/10 (only because of consistent glitchy animations mostly occurring in assassinations) Story 8/10 Characters 8/10 Combet 10/10
This has to be one of the best games I’ve ever played. I’m doing every single mission, challenge, etc because it’s such a beautiful and fun game! I’m having a blast!!!
Molto bello e divertente da giocare, paesaggi incredibili, ottimo comparto audio e colonna sonora strepitosa, 9 e non 10 solo per i dialoghi non realizzati benissimo, quasi di fretta. Tantissime attività da svolgere e sistema di combattimento variegato e originale. Un gran bel gioco che deve essere paragonato a giochi del suo genere come gli ultimi 2 AC o Days Gone e devo dire che li batte sotto quasi tutti i punti di vista.

Este juego fue una maravillosa sorpresa. Oí hablar de él mucho antes de que saliera pero no esperaba algo de esta magnitud. Visualmente es impresionante, lo mejor que he visto. No me canso de detenerme a contemplar el mundo que crearon. Y la mecánica de juego es muy buena, es entretenida y mejora a medida que avanza la historia. Muy bueno.
I loved the game, it looks really nice, amd the combat is really good, i like the way the game tells you were to go and the armors are really cool, ( i havent finished the game but i like it very much) and i like the stealth gameplay it reminds me of assassins creed.
I have to say the game itself is BEAUTIFUL, the gameplay is very attractive it calls you and demands you play more. Land scapes are a breathtaking view. As a martial artist I have studied, Jiu Jitsu, Akido, the historical aspects of the game are pretty accurate and pay homage to the Samurai of the past The fact that SUcker punch spent so much time in Japan actually caring to get it right is amazing. Great game I definitely recommend playing it!!
First time doing a review on metacritic but i felt like i had to because there are some salty TLOU2 fans bombing this game. I don't care what you think of the TLOU2 but i didn't come here to talk about that i wanted to say that GOT is a game with a beautiful world and great combat. I put about 15 hours into this game and im loving it. I think this is suckerpunch's best game
I didn't have very high expectations for this game, I wasn't very excited for it but omg im so surprised by how good this game is, the story though lacking in some areas was overall great and I finished it being very satisfied. The combat is very good and engaging and can be really challenging sometimes. I am a big sucker for costumisation and the game did not disappoint on that front. Overall A very good experience. I can easily recommend this to anyone.
game is great can't stop playing a huge fan of history especially Japanese history been there twice looks a mix of the witcher 3 and assassins creed but will updated graphics and game play
Generic dialogue, but outstanding visuals gameplay feels kinda like a assassins creed but better, gets a little repetitive quick but Again visuals are top notch. I give it a 9 just for the Beauty of some of the landscapes.
Thank you sucker punch for fulfilling my dreams of being a samurai master. Love the time and effort put into making this an immersing experience. The combat is crisp and exciting, the story is authentic, the graphics are amazing! So glad Sony went out with a bang on this one!!

What a way to end ps4 era, hats off. This game is mix of every openworld I've played. Very satisfying Combat, stand off against enemies, using different stances and ghost weaponry to take down a bunch of mongols. Some may say it looks easy but you have to be very careful while fighting enemies especially ronin as they are no less than a samurai. Beautiful wonderful open world of this game never ever gets me bored. It's just so colourful and beautiful. There are numerous interesting tales and tales that can give u special attacks. There are tales of mythic legends which provide u many great attack skill. The title intro still gives me goosebumps. Jin sakai OST really gets me hyped all the time. Camera mode in this game is so addictive. Everywhere i go I can't resist taking a screenshots. Boss battles are super fun too. Ghost of Tsushima is a complete and a breathtakingly gorgeous game. A piece of true ART!!.
After having played the game for 40 hours so far (Post game currently) the game is very fun, its like assassin's creed but its been way more fun than any of the assassin's creed games in the last couple of years, overall 10/10
Bought the game first day it came out and would say have done about 15 hours so far. It is a fantastic game that gets better the longer you play. I am playing it on hard and was getting beatten and was a bit frustrated by the combat. But as i unlocked more skills and started to master the combat the more I felt like a master samurai. I have been side tracekd by exploring the world and have not gotten to far into the story, but cant wait to play more. It is also one of the most incredible looking games for me tied only with God Of War. To the delevpos of the game, I have to say that they have done a extraordinary job creating this game, and is evident the work and talent that it would take to creat a game of this level. How has not wanted to be a bad ass samurai and this game dilvers that experience in a unbelievable way.


This review contains spoilers. Such a refreshing experience after playing that atrocity of a game by Naughty dog. GOT is pure gold in its deliverance and has EVERYTHING that a game should be creating the immersion of being a Samurai in a classic movie experience.
Sony managed to place an amazing game to end the ps4 legacy of exclusiv game for future Playstation 5 and the new generation of games! And Ghost of tsushima is that game. Am hyped for ps5 future in Quality sp games. P
An absolutely beautiful and fun game. I know Cyberpunk 2077 is the game to beat this year (if it delivers on its promises), but this is a serious contender for game of the year (along with Final Fantasy VII remake in my humble opinion). Remember being absolutely floored by the beautiful world in Red Dead Redemtion 2? Ghost of Tsushima makes it look dull. I won’t get into spoilers here but even in terms of gameplay, you’re in for a treat. Absolutely fantastic game, recommended!
Visually the best game I've ever played. Some bugs and glitches which I hope will be patched out soon. Will update as I get further through the story. Take note Naughty Dog.
Ghost of tsushima великолепная игра. Сюжет неплохой. Боевка очень понравилась. И графика очень красивая. Чуствуется атмосфера самураев и гг меняется постепенно. его характер. и честь самурая уходит на второй план. Увы злодей не впечатлил. Даю игре 9 из 10ти



Beautiful open world, smooth combat, and a compelling a Story if only the difficulty was I little bit higher and they tried for something inovative in the game this would be a perfect 10.



This has quickly become my favorite game of all time. The attention to detail in the environments, the in depth side quests that actually have meaning, and the crisp combat, and the freedom to choose stealth or go in swords swinging in and challenge the biggest guy to a duel is exhilarating. Every part of this game is amazing, I never use the fast travel option, there is so much to do and see and hidden things to find. I am usually the type of person who buys a game, plays it for an hour then never plays it again. This game brought me out of that rut. It has put an end to the recent bland open world games that have been released. Unfortunately I never got around to enjoying Horizon Zero Dawn or other games much because they felt like they were missing something. Ghosts of Tsushima does not feel like it is lacking anything, and it has me absolutely hooked. If you buy one game in your life, please either buy this or Titanfall 2 for the story. No other games comes close.
A beautiful game with its music and scenery. The fluidity of combat is different enough to stand out amongst its peers. A story portrayed extremely well by the voice actors with real emotion mixed with the outstanding music makes many scenes extremely impactful. Definitely a game I will remember for a long time.
Okay so, this game took me by surprised when I actually saw the presentation on recent months. I remember the first time they presented it like a year ago or some, but I never expected this game was going to be this beautiful, fun and addicting. I'll say little about it so I dont spoil much, but hey if you like samurais and classic samurai or sword play or katana action, THIS GAME IS FOR YOU.


O jogo entraga uma total diversão dentro do enredo oferecido nos games . Não tem muitas coisas no qual me encomoda , so deixa adeseja na IA . Mas e um bom game ensima da tematica samurai .
graphics, animations, physics: 8/10 The graphics are great. animations and physics are fine but nothing to drool over. gameplay, sequences, level design: 8/10 traversing the open world i find slightly more interesting than your average open world game. gameplay was okay. felt like a lot of other typical open world games honestly. stealth A.I. is very dumb, which it typically is in these types of games. camera issues during combat are frequent. story: 8/10 above average for open world games. i found moment to moment story telling engaging enough, but don't expect the witcher 3.
Nothing’s perfect, so i give it 10 cause beeing one of my favorite of all time!
Being 4-5 hours in this is a beauty to behold from its satisfying hack and slash gameplay to its gorgeous landscapes this is goty contender with the not mind blowing story but still nonetheless it is a definite buy with it being an easy 80+ HOUR GAME Go do yourself a favor and buy it now.
Потрясающее приключение с отличной боевкой, хорошей проработкой заданий в красивых декорациях. Ассасин каким он должен быть.
Gráficos lindos, história ok, personagem cumpre o papel de samurai o que infelizmente diminui o carisma dele, combate incrível e mundo que dá vontade de passar horas só andando.
Stunning open-world game. breathtakingly beautiful. meaningful side quests. main quest is based on an actual legend in japanese history during the mongol invasion. combat is engaging, always fresh and evolving. there are skill trees, lots of customization- go samurai, ghost (stealth) or a combination of both. youll spend hours just exploring and seeking out collectibles. writing is excellent and genuinely sounds/reads authentic for the culture and period. very few bugs, but there were a few- nothing game-breaking (minor collision). atmosphere is thick with feudal japan flora, forests, and flowing streams. Weather effects are next-gen and the environment feels natural; spaces are realistic. this truly game nails it all. Ghost of Tsushima is a must own for PS4 owners, especially those who love massive open-world gameplay coupled with excellent storytelling.

ghost of tsushima is a beautiful and vibrant game with cinematic flair combat can a be a bit too easy even on hard but it can be incredibly fun solid entry and good potential for a new franchise i recommend it
Great fluid gameplay and combat experience and a great art style paired with stunning graphics. This games story draws you in and connects you to its characters making you want to savour all parts of it. I wish I could go back and play it for the first time again. A good way to start the sendoff for the old generation of consoles.
though have some minus points, I still would like to give 10 full score as a new IP developed under restrained resources. recommend to player who likes: action, samurai, beautiful scenery.
This game has made me realise why fast load times is key. I hate "fast travel" in many games because it makes me spend minutes staring at the loading screen. However, here fast travel is just that, fast.
Oh my god what a weekend. Play it. Smooth flow. Beautiful graphics. I’d make a longer review but I wanna go play more. Update after I’m finished...
I haven’t finished the first act mainly because I’ve been tied up with side quests and hunt done enemies that I can do standoffs with. Combat is amazing, story so far is amazing. Very Minor issues nothing close to game breaking or annoying. I’ve always wanted an Assassin’s Creed like game with Samurai and Sucker Punch delivered and than some.
Such a good game. It brings me back to the time I discovered the assassin's creed franchise with brotherhood. I can't stop playing it, and the time seems to stop being a thing. I am amazed that when you want to make a game, for the purpose of it, without wanting to send any bad political message, you can still make adults feel like kids. I haven't felt this good since a lot of time, especially cause I'm marrying in a foreign country at the moment, and that this game helps me cope with stress at a point I couldn't suspect. I would recommend this game to anyone that still has this adventurer spirit, and who want to feel like living an Isekai on your own. I would like to forget I played it so I could discover it again.



What a game!!!! Yo, this game is a banger, definitely worth it, An action oriented story driven game that will stick with you for life. This is definitely my GOTY or even GOTD. Sucker punch really out done their self. Congrats to them and Please make a DLC

This is up there with horizon zero dawn and God of war4 for amazing open world games. About 30 hours in as a completionist. love it and haven't gotten bored or sick of the quest. way less repetitive and just graphically more beautiful than most open world games. If you want a fulfilling open world with great stories and graphics runs smooth but not perfect. My best bug/glitch experienced was claiming a lighthouse. Had one or 2 more enemies left so got the option to challenge remaining enemies. One was at the top of the lighthouse who decided to jump all the way down finishing the quest lmao. 10 out of 10 would replay that mission over and over again for the laughs
Beautiful and addictive, although the side missions and some main ones can become a little of a chore it is still one of the best games I've played in a while.
I have played since Friday and I am just starting the second chapter, however I can say I am truly hooked. The gameplay is excellent as you'd expect from Sucker Punch, the island is truly beautiful and the art direction is superb.... with fantastic use of vivid colors. It does a great job of hiding all the 'game-y' elements like arrows and lines to follow. The story has to be serious to be respectful of the historic material, so do not expect many laughs but it is full of memorable characters with interesting stories and twists. I would highly recommend this game and it deserved a much higher meta.... maybe around 87 to 89. However I love Japanese culture so I am giving it a 10.
This game is awesome do yourself a favor play it and relax with it. It’s an awesome story and it doesn’t rush at all or feel overwhelming. Plenty of stuff to do. I was trying to get to mission a little way down the map and I got stopped by a guy on the side of the road who need help then I ran into a monk playing the flute who led me on a quest to have an epic battle with lighting raging around us and white flowers flying everywhere, and it all feels natural.

Отличная игра! Не ожидал. Визуальное составляющее на высоте, геймплей отличный. Очень интересная игра. Я доволен.
Wow ! Two thumbs way up for Sucker Punch. One of the most beautiful and games, period. Had to Platinum, just could not stop playing. Can’t wait for that DLC (fingers crossed) !
Was exactly what I hoped for. Samurai simulator 2020, the game isn’t perfect but damn does it get a lot right( would give a 9.5)Awesome since of organic exploration, always pushing you to look and find new and exciting things.Archery, Sword play, and combat in general are top notch, GoW levels of feel good, smooth, and fluid. This and BotW has me taking phots none stop which is a plus. It’s a typical samurai/revenge story that sticks to those tropes but has awesome moments, not going to break new grown or really turn up the open world heat like I feel BotW did( which is my favorite game of all time). I would delve into to much but if your a fan of open world game’s and sword play, this is game is what you want.
Haven’t had this much fun playing a single player game in a long time. To me this is a Game that has the elements of destiny 1 and rdr2 in another. Fast traveling, great story line and upgrade methods. Worth it 10/10
Can pet the foxes. 10/10. On a real note this game is extremely beautiful to look at and such a pleasure to play. The story is outstanding and even the side missions are compelling. Sucker Punch really nailed it on the head with this one. The combat is also very satisfying.
This game is good. Sucker punches willingly took a risk with this game and for the most part it works. There's a few hiccups like scenes that frame rates drop hard core whitch is a big nono. The biggest save for this game is fantastic story telling. Its action is fluent however does suffer from cake issues .
As a japanese guy myself, I loved the way the game portrays my people, our pride, our strength and honor. It might be a long long time ago but the Samurai Soul must be kept alive.


The game is beautiful but also bland during battle. I haven't beat it yet but about 7 hours in and its kinda boring. I was never into dark souls or any game like that. I really dislike the assasins creed games and it really reminds me of those. Its a alrught and im gonna finish it.
I waited for so long to play something like Tenshu or Shinobido, I tried sekiro but it was nothing like that. Ghost of tsushima brings back not only an amazing and nostalgic experience, but it also adds a lot to the genre. I hope they keep developing games like this one because it's definitely worth it. There is a lot to explore about graphics and gameplay from here. Hope to see it in ps5.
This game really knows how to make you feel like a badass samurai, with the stunning environments and soundtrack. While there is a significant amount of filler and some odd but minor-ish plot inconsistencies, the unique mechanics and mildly addictive and satisfying gameplay makes up for it.
Sin mucha publicidad juegazo que salió y ahora para rematar el año the witcher 2077

What a beautifully made game!! I have never used foto mood until now, it’s a real work of art. The combat is simple but satisfactory. Sucker punch properly delivers a revenge story as one of the last samurai waging an unconventional war for the freedom of japan. I highly recommend the game!!



good story . not very good face animation stuning envoirment beutifull music
Одна из лучших игр, в которые я играл на PS4 (Хоть и было их не так уж и много). Особое уважение вызывает работа дизайнеров и художников.

Este juego es acojonante, cuanto más lo juegas más ganas tienes de seguir jugando, no he tenido esta sensación de no poder parar de jugar desde Fallout 3. Tiene algunos bugs, y otros pequeños fallos, que realmente pasan completamente desapercibidos por lo acojonantemente buena que es la ambientación, el combate y la historia. Le doy un 10, porque si tengo que elegir entre un 9 y un 10, prefiero un 10, aunque la nota real que le daría sería un 9.5

All I can say is it’s a beautifully designed game that actually deserves its rating. Only big issues I’ve found is some capes have clipping issues and the wind doesn’t really like them in some directions. Story’s ok, but I’m getting real BOTW vibes but also puts a new spin on it. Sure, BOTW is better but I’d say that this is a definite 10 in my book. Happy gaming y’all.
Do yourself a favor and give this game a try. It's just stunning the ambience, nature and island of Tsushima is just beautiful. The gameplay is fantastic and never gets dull.
Fun to play, the combats mechanics are great! Im still enjoying. It is have a long gameplay, with stonishing places, and with a beatifull soundtrack. This game has an excelent character developing(Learn How to do It Neil Druckmann). The downside of this game, is the gameplay style, it looks like Assassins Creed hahahahah. Graphics kinda tricked me because of the trailer, but still looks good. If tou played The last of us II and feel bad, just play rhis game, it will made tou recovery from such a horrível history telling.
Visually stunning and immersive. Full of vibrant colours. Combat is smooth. Object detection is spot on especially in combat. No lock on is a challenge but fun. Stand-off mechanic is a welcome addition. Absence of mini-maps and the minimal appearance of the HUD is good, for taking in the breath taking vistas of Tsushima. Kurosawa mode should be played after your first play through. Difficulty is well balance, should be played on medium. Only issues is the sliding door animation, it is too fast and camera angle is too closed up.

Fantastic gameplay. Beautiful visuals Authentic story. This game is a must play! I'm 12 hours in and I'm still not done with it! Incredible! Best looking Ps4 visuals ever!

I won't say i love this game, but i find quite fun, even if i'm not a fan of the genre. But "Fun" is what videogames are about right?? The story is not particularly engaging for me, but it works nonetheless. I'm not going to spoil the story, but basically, you are put in the role of a Japanese Samurai in the feudal era, and you are tasked to drive the Mongol invaders out of Japan, starting from scratch. Visually, this title shines. Hardly you will find another title that delivers so much colorful and live environment like this game. The world seems and feels alive, and this is quite hard to accomplish. The wind is a used as a gameplay feature, but even if it's not subtle, still helps (or you can ignore it). However, interactions with NPC have something to be desired... Faces and expressions are kinda poor, and sometimes the interactions feel strange. All in all, even if i still have to finish this title, i can recommend it. Even if you're not really a fan of the Assasin Creed gamestyle (This game have some elements from it, and similar games), you might enjoy it. Surely, i am. And that's why i recommend it.
Jin’s story is really well done in spite of the progression he takes from a by-the-code samurai to using the underhanded tactics of a ninja being a bit to believe. The betrayal of the straw hats could have been done better with a tale of hurt pride or jealousy rather than of hunger, but considering the main focus of this game is the Mongols and their invasion, it’s not the worst thing in the world. The graphics are done to perfection and while the camera is finicky at times, but the gameplay itself is great and the motions characters make as they strike and the visuals that appear on screen more than make up for this leaving the player awestruck.


What an amazing experience, I have not been excited or enjoyed a game like this in a long time, well done sucker punch, what a game you have created and there is so much to do and find in my personal opinion this game gets a 10 from me and the beauty of the game is breataking
this is a very good game, I really appreciate the efforts of the SP team who have done in-depth research on Japanese history and culture, so it gives a natural impression when playing this game, despite all kinds of minor flaws in this game, I think this is best work from SP, congratulations.
La verdad es que el juego tiene un apartado visual hermoso, la jugabilidad a pesar de no ser la más original está bien conseguida y la historia es muy buena, lo recomiendo!

Very fun game! As many others have said, the graphics are absolutely gorgeous. I’ve heard others say it’s kind of boring, but I’ve had the opposite experience. I find myself delaying the main storyline, running around doing side quests or just taking in the scenery. It’s not perfect. I’ve had a few bugs at very unfortunate times, and I wish the combat had just a liiiiittle more variation...but to me those are both fairly minor gripes. 8.5 would be a fair score, but I’m just enjoying it so much that I bumped it to a 9. It has that intangible “something” that just really struck a chord with me.
Jogo animal. Erros bestas que podem ser corrigidos com patchs de atualização. Mecânica de batalha impecável, um dos melhores gráficos da geração, sistema de exploração divertido e recompensador. Fotografia e arte do jogo impecáveis. Musica linda. Enfim, um jogo que deve ser jogado por quem tem ps4. E qu
What Assassin's Creed should have evolved into. Simple, yet excellent combat. A good mix of both styles of gameplay. Somewhat basic story, yet a evolving protagonist and excellent thematic keeps it going well till the end. Visuals left me in awe, even with my ol console. One of few games where you will still be rushing into combat with excitement after 20+ hours of Gameplay.
Beautiful work of art! Gameplay is satisfying, rarely have I ran into any bugs, solid story and characters are well developed. It’s meditative to play at times.
Ok so I wanna start that when looking at purely graphics and game play it is a solid 8-9 out of 10 BUT it's a 10 outta 10 for me because of the timing. There hasn't been a game this refreshing in years. I somehow relaxed, on the edge of my seat, and happy all at the same time while playing this game. I seriously hope other games look at the games wind mechanic and implement it because having the screen just be you and the environment is amazing. Maybe I'm being very bias with this score I just can't find a bad thing about the game tbh. It has some bug that should be fixed but nothing that has made me wanna stop playing even for a second. This game is a must buy, totally the GOTY winner right here.
Absolutely amazing game. I've been playing it all day. The fun seems endless and the lore is interesting. Which I consider the game to be almost perfect.. except small issues like bugs and mainly the camera/lock on for the combat. I hope they send some over 10 GB update that would at least make the combat a little better while also improve the AI. On the other hand, the quests are kind of the same everytime but I mean I guess thata time because it's their first game like that and I feel like they did not have much time to work on it. Hope their next big open world game will be EVEN better than this one.

This game is gorgeous, draws you in and never lets you go until the end. It's alot of fun, especially when you play at a harder difficulty, where you'll really feel a sense of accomplishment as you improve. The scenery and backgrounds are some of the most beautiful that I've ever seen in a video game, the music is also epic and adds atmosphere and nuance to an already engrossing and breathing world. A true historic journey into ancient Japan through the eyes and actions of the noble samurai. Highly recommended!


Ghost of Tsushima is a game that I cannot adequately express in only 5000 characters. Taking control of Samurai lord Jin Sakai, it is up to you to help reclaim Tsushima from the first Mongol invasion-and that's only the main storyline. Side stories of mentors and acquaintances make this game something completely unique in spite of the fact that it's only another entry in the open world market. Jin's sword in combat has weight to the strikes, each slash having a chance to catch into your opponents for that brutal, blood-spraying, ripping action. Your 'ghost tools' all feel like they have a special purpose, even if you use them or not. You'll soon feel like a master of the bow as you quickly shift from half bow to longbow, and all the special arrow types between. Each sword stance is beautiful, and has it's own allure. I could keep listing the positives, but, for a fair review, I feel I must point out the negative in all this-your map being complete depends entirely on you exploring the areas. Yes, defeating a Mongol-occupied territory helps with some of your map, but, that doesn't stop that you'll need to run and ride with your horse in order to fill it in. Luckily, though, the landscape is filled with little gems-scenes of bandits, Mongols, and peasants living their lives, or having died by others hands. This is, I would say, a definitely buy immediately game.
Ghost of Tsushima is how an AAA samurai game should be done. It capture the vibe of ancient japan very accurately. After the mess of the last of us part 2, this is a breath of fresh air of gaming. AAA developers should take notes, focusing make a great game, instead of pandering into those SJW craps.

Обожаю самураев! Интересный геймплей, красочный мир и топовая графика, по крайней мере на pro
My favorite open world game since The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, and in my top 3 PS4 games of all time. All of the side content felt meaningful, and was quick enough that it never felt like I was just trying to get through it. My only complaint is that I wish the armor functioned like in Spider-Man ps4 where you could put any suit's armor benefits on any other suit. Separate the stats from the armor!
So far one of the best game I have ever played. I really like the sword fighting. The character feels very powerfull and the enemies are not sponges which is nice.
I absolutely love this game! From the clever ways they create for the player to explore, to just seemingly getting lost in the beauty of this open world. It’s such a simple and direct plot but a masterpiece when it comes to side missions.
Best graphics and art design. Combat is perfect. It is easy to learn but difficult to master. Story has great emotional moments and glorious set pieces. One of the best open world's this gen. Easily.

1.對馬島呈現出美麗生動的世界 2.刺激好玩的刀劍器具對弈戰鬥 3.日本武士道精神的描述 4.大量而細心的支線故事 5.遊戲主線故事非常吸引人
Let me start by saying, this is one of the coolest game ever made. Ghost of Tsushima is a dream come true for me, I'm a big fan of Japanese culture and Samurai, and this game shows the passion and love the developers had too! The graphics are so damn good. Every 5 minutes I found myself stopping to take in the view and snapping pics from the great photo mode, which offer a lot of creative options. The combat system really shines on hard mode, at first you'll find yourself dying a lot, but it makes you wanna be better and after you master the way of the samurai, you'll feel so cool when they can't even touch you. And even cooler when you wipe away the blood from your blade and put it away graciously. Finally the atmosphere and immersion this game offers is masterful, riding your horse in the fields while epic Japanese music is playing, really is one the best feelings ever. I can't remember a time when I enjoyed a game so much. Thank you Sucker Punch for the amazing game! 10/10
На играл более 20 часов. Не очень понял претензии к гринду. Это далеко не последний ассасин. Геймплей бодрый, боевка оригинальна и интересна, графика на космос, но то же с изюминкой. Японская озвучка +100 к атмосфере. В общем как по мне пока что лучшая игра в этом году для плойки
9.5 out of 10......there are no perfect games. In one word this game is "FUN." If you liked Witcher 3, Assassin's Creed, or Horizon Zero Dawn...then you will love this game. This game is a step above those games. Visually beautiful---maybe the best looking PS4 (non PC) looking game ever. Story is fun, even side quests give you a different fun adventure. Characters are lovable. (I only wish there would have been some romance in the story). Great gameplay, similar to Witcher 3, Assassin's Creed, and Horizon Zero Dawn...only with a Samari slant. The Picture mode is the best ever, you can get lost for another 10 hours going around the map taking pictures. The enemies are sort of hard, but not too hard. Just when I get over confident and feel like I am invincible, I get massacred by some low level grunt. AND THE BEST THING...Load Times are literally 2-3 seconds. WHAT!!! Yes, load times are like 2-3 seconds and when you die it takes you right back to the spot where you died. You don't have to play the entire section over to get back to the point you died at. The music and sound is perfect and very beautiful and peaceful. Huge map, maybe takes about 40-50 hours if you visit every site. And the tracking system with the wind and leaves and birds and foxes is just so innovative and magical. Did I mention the cool Japanese/Samari clothes and hats you can wear. Really anyone who loves this style of game and gameplay will love this game. You can go gangbusters in and destroy enemies face to face, or stealth around and assassinate them, jump from roof tops or even jump from your horse to assassinate an enemy, or just bow and arrow them to death, you got explosives and fire bombs and just cool finishing moves with lots of blood, or throw some firecrackers to just stealth right around them. So many many ways to have "FUN" you will never get bored.


The gameplay is marvelous, actually I’ve never played a game this good in swordplay and the story was very good and cinematic (if anyone watched a classical samurai movie and liked it, should buy this game), although there was some issues such as the AI and some issues in parkour but it worth the price and the time
Очень понравился данный продукт. Есть небольшие претензии к графике, на мой вкус можно было бы подкрутить текст урки. Однако самурайский сеттинг выполнен великолепно. Главный герой прописан, хорошо раскрыт его внутренний конфликт, показанный на протяжении всей игры. Советую данную игру к прохожденрю.
Очень приятная графика и атмосфера) легко можно освоить боевку, очень понравилось что можно пройти игру с дефолтной катаной) нет привязки к уровню и обязанности зачищать все локации) интересный сюжет без странных лишних поворотов) из минусов только наличие багов, надеюсь их скоро поправят)
Хорошая игра, добротный боевик в открытом мире с красивым самурайским сеттингом, круто поставленной боевой системой и интересно переосмысленными стандартными для жанра механиками.

Played it on PS4 slim, ran smooth as silk. Looks great, the vivid and varied colour pallets are great. Combat is fun, gets maybe a bit easy by the end when dealing with trash mob but you can try different approaches so that keeps it engaging. Love the wind as a guide idea. Story is a bit average but the multi phase side missions are a great idea. Overall the weaker story doesn't ruin the game for me at all and i gladly recommend it if you like the Japanese style or open world RPGs
Good history , beautiful graphics and a lot of things to do in game , I’m loving it.
De los mejores juegos mundo abierto que he jugado, sistema de recompensas que te animan a seguir, paisaje hermosos, banda sonora impecable, historia interesante, personajes con trasfondo, progresion de personaje balanceado. el juego te anima a realizar las misiones secundarias, pocos bugs. Empresas de videojuegos deberian tener como ejemplo este titulo. añadido a mi coleccion permanente

Game fantástico, apesar de alguns defeitos como pés que entram em degraus, pequenos bugs, gráfico da água simples... O game é fantástico em sua gameplay, sidequests, e história... Curti bastante, é de se elogiar as partículas voando pela tela, um belo jogo... Todos os defeitos que ele tem não influencia em nada na experiência.
One of the most beautiful games I have ever played, it will make you think games truly are art. Combat is fluid and fun to engage in, story is engaging and i cant stop doing the side content as i just want to explore this amazing world! Giving a 9 because i did run into some glitches like getting stucj under a house and some frame rate drops here and there but i am on the base ps4 not a pro so its to be expected.
Like this game so much, one of the best. But ending is a bit lost. So, recommend it for everyone.
Best samurai game ever.The first gameplay at E3 2018 was amazing and I keep waiting for this game for two years.I completed all of the submissions on my first playthrough and none of them are meaningless. Also the combat is pretty awesome.GOTY plz!!!
The game is amazing in its own way the game is beautiful, challenging and the combat is really amazing! I give this a 10/10 my expectations were blown away with this game I like how there is two endings but the only thing that was ehh was the character Design at some points threw the cutscenes but this game is one of the best exclusives I’ve played well done! SuckerPunch
Атмосферный РПГ экшн в лучших традициях катаны и лука, 4/4 мелодий для флейты сменяющих погоду. Обожаю.
If you’re looking for an experience that makes you feel like a real life samurai then this may be the game for you. The world is detailed and gorgeous with some insane draw distances for a console game , although close up there a few issues with low res / blurry textures. The combat is addictive and nice to see does something different to the usual lock on stuff every other modern game uses. It generally does make you feel like an all powerful warrior. Although it does get repetitive and is a bit to easy at times. The AI in combat does not hold back and is aggressive. The stealth gameplay is not the best and uses the typical tropes from other games. The Ai in the stealth components are also extremely dumb. However this is made up by a gripping story that’s well written. Its probably one of the best interpretations of feudal japan to date. However if you’re the type of gamer who needs none stop action this is probably not the game for you. I also ran into a few bugs and glitches that need fixing.
This game follows the Japanese aesthetic principle that "less is more". Isn't monumental as The Witcher 3 for example, but everything it does is perfect. The level of details and beauty of the map is correctly conjugated with an interesting story (for being an openworks) that makes easy the have the feeling of involvement. I recommend to play in the highest difficulty and HUD level expert. The only problems are related with some movement of some characters in a very specific secuences and that they make everything in English, so when you play it with Japanese voices (what's mandatory) exist some problems with the dubbing die that the characters are clearly speaking English.
Ghost of tsushima is one if the best games I have ever played The game is not like other samuri games you played its different The story is so emotional and great Combat 10/10 Stealth 8/10
Definitely it has everything I had searched in a game in such a setting and genre! The stunning visuals and ability of making the combat look cinematic is so good. GOTY for me!
An amazing well designed game. Sucker punch production amaze you with its graphical details in every point of the game. The open world concept is well thought and has Been executed very well. My only complain was with a few minor glitches and NPC movements which im sure will be fixed in future updates.


Это тот ассасин который мы заслужили, открытый мир, боевая система, прокачка персонажа, а этот мир, боже он прекрасен, выдайте награду человеку который отвечал за графику в игре.
Amazing combat with decent story telling. Exploration doesn't feel as rewarding as i feel it should be. The optional quest are really high quality. This game is huge as well! Combat feels like a combination of Sekiro and Witcher. I recommend playing it on hard difficulty!~
this is one of the best PS4 exclusives so far. The game has absolutely stunning open world with amazing biome. I think the combat is best in class as well.



Fantastic game, really fun, in depth combat system, very rewarding for exploring the open world, stunning scenery and graphics, and an intriguing story that genuinely made me interested in the history and lore. Sucker Punch really hit it out of the park on this one and I hope it wins game of the year, though we have yet to see what Cyberpunk has to offer but I doubt it can live up to Ghost of Tsushima in many aspects. Definitely a must play for any ps4 owners.
Since god of war I haven’t played a game so well rounded. Combat is even better - and the atmosphere and love for detail all add to this masterpiece. And I‘m not so much into action adventures as I prefer rts, shooters or combat flight sims :)

Amazing game, was sad that infamous was over but this game does more than fill in for that franchise. Great smooth gameplay and new mechanics that are truly awesome. Story is really good and solid.
Combat flows nicely and is satisfying. Story was great. Graphics aren't insane but it's beautiful with what it does have. Open world is actually nice and each biome feels like it belongs and isn't just copy/pasted set-pieces. Enemy variation is also good and gives a decent sense of scaling as you go. Great game worth every penny.
Это игра лучше чем тлоу 2. Повторяюсь это игра по-моему скромному мнению лучше the last of us 2. The best game of ps4 game

Заднеприводные лгбтшники сосать, ваше говно никогда не будет хорошим. Если вы ещё раз испортит игру, будьте уверены:геймеры будут вас блядь выбирать на улицах и пиздить до потери пульса.

Специально ставлю 10 - из-за того, что это просто ХОРОШАЯ игра, не гинеальная, а просто красивый, добротный проект, в который приятно играть, в отличии от tlou 2
THIS game, is the Swan song of the PS4. Trust player reviews folks, as they are the people who spent £55 on this game, and have invested days of play into it - not rushing to get their review out to be the first; but soaking in how incredible this game is. It's easily 10/10 material for me, but I marked it down 1 point, as my review would probably be marked a spam or something. Oh, and the gameplay is a tad AC, so can feel samey - but honestly, it fades into obscurity when you immerse yourself into the island.
This game is beautiful. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring and the side missions make sense with the overall story. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind guiding mechanism is original and great. The combat is really amazing. I love how you swipe to honour etc... I highly recommend this game.

Beautiful graphics and well-developed atmosphere of the game make you amaze this view, interesting and exciting gameplay that deserves attention, as well as the facial expressions of the characters personally well-developed, I put this game 10/10
Amazing graphics and gameplay, action is amazing. The game is perfect. The loading screen is very quick and doesn’t take long to load anything. Perfect 10/10
Rough around the edges but still a fun game. The camera can act really buggy at times, staying zoomed in on Jin so you can't see the where you are trying to go. A few issues in combat such as the lock on mechanic being frustratingly bad, camera doesn't follow who you lock on to, locks on to characters off-screen while there are some directly in front of Jin, sometimes Jin won't even face who he is lock on to. Sometimes enemies stack up and attack through each other causing confusing interactions. And don't you dare use the wrong stance against an enemy or it will pause combat for 10 seconds, force you to switch stances, then pop up hints saying why a certain stance is good against certain enemies even though you are 2/3rds of the way through the game. And as much as i love watching the same cut scene with my horse or scenes of two people staring at each other (I don't) i would rather play the game.
This game is amazing. Magnificent story and innovative gameplay. Who cares if a eastern game is made by western developers. The game is being praised in Japan. Suck it up haters.




Beautiful game! The exploration, tales and photo mode had me playing for countless hours everyday. I haven't even progressed much in the main story, which is insanely good as well. Only downsides I could think of are a bunch of unpolished animations and some weird graphical glitches, which doesn't even bother me much because IT IS AN IMMERSIVE, BEAUTIFUL WORK OF ART.


Combate divertido, un enorme mapa que vale la pena explorar, misiones secundarias y misiones principales. Los gráficos son hermosos,Ghost of Tsushima despega lentamente a través de la historia, pero se vuelve interesante y mejor cada vez que continúas la historia, el mundo es tan hermoso lleno de muchas actividades para disfrutar , el sistema de viento realmente hace que el juego sea especial y refrescante claro no es perfecto como todos los juegos pero destaca entre los juegos del 2020 muy merecido un 9/10 te recomiendo comprarlo y hacer una prueba

One of the best games of the generation I cannot recommend this enough The sword play The environment The soundtrack Everything about this game is wonderful and you should all play it
Лучшая игра всех времён. Графика на высшем уровне, красивые виды. Ставлю 5 за отличную механику.
Story is interesting to me and lived up to all the hype. Ganeplay or fighting is solid. Love the progression aspect as well and choices. Been waiting for a good samurai game like this for years. SucketPunch did awesome. Totally worth every penny!!
As a person with platinum trophy in Ghost of Tsushima i can say it's almost perfect! Fascinating story, amazing world with astonishing landscape, hands down best action rpg combat mechanic that enables to mix stealth with open fights! GOTY
Been playing for more than 20 hours. What a game. Usually side missions bores me quickly but I don't want this game to end. Masterpiece and best game in 2020.
I was not sure if I should buy this game as recently games are not a medium to be used for entertainment as much as to push different wies and ideas... So I watched few gameplays and after few videos I was like this is awesome! So I got the game and I have to say its so refreshing the graphics is so vibrant and enhances the atmosphere of feudal Japan the combat system it I think the best I ever experienced sharp fast and precise... The story is nothing ground breaking but its solid and side quests are actually fun and make sence plus the duels I wish there would be more the targeting system is sometimes frustrating but over all with Final fantasy 7 remake these 2 games are the best games that came out this year and definetly worth playing So if you get it guys all I can say is have fun
The comparisons to Assassin's Creed do not do this game justice. If you have even a passing interest in samurai fiction this is worth checking out. I would give it an 8.6 if metacritic mobile would allow it. I wasn't eagerly anticipating this game, so there is no fanboyism here. It is simply a great game. It isn't a masterpiece, but it accomplishes what it sets out to do. Which is to make you feel like a badass samurai from film fiction. It's greatest strengths are the combat system, visuals, and loot incentives. The only major cons are minor bugs and the camera movement is wonky at times. The story is serviceable, not excellent. I'm about 16 hours in and the writing is standard videogame fare. Not bad, but it also isn't the focus of the game.
No bs like levels for enemy! No one million useless pieces of gear with different numbers on it! No lock on so you need to git gud to overcome enemy. It a most beautiful open world i ever see and very good story to watch. Some minor problems with animations, enemy AI and textures loading but nothing critical. Overall great game! i only hope they release it on PC.
За одну только сцену по возвращению меча и последующей встречи с врагом, в прологе, ставлю высший бал. Настолько смачно и культово показать самурая.... Спасибо! Главный герой ощущается в поступках и движениях, режиссура и сценарий производилась здоровыми на голову людьми.


Годный боевик в открытом мире, красивом залипательном мире. Механика боев и езды на лошади очень хороши. Рекомендую.



Seit Horizon Zero Dawn hatte ich nicht mehr so viel Spaß in einem Open World Spiel. Die Art und Weise wie mich dieses Spiel auf eine Reise mit nimmt ist grandios.Ich weiß auch nicht einmal wo ich anfangen soll.. Atmosphäre und Weltdesign sind besonders positiv meines Erachtens hervor zu heben.Einziger Kritikpunkt für mich wäre die sehr dümmliche KI bei dem unehrenhaften Ninja sein ;) Ganz dicke Kaufempfehlung !!!!
This game makes you feel like a bad-ass samurai. Slaying enemies like flowing water, hard sundering strikes as stone, and captivating attacks like the moon.
The controls are weird and often my character doesn't attack an enemy I wanted him to attack which is very annoying. Graphics are good until you take a closer look, really nice and fairytale surroundings (10/10) but the character animations aren't the best and the character models aren't as sharp as in other games. The story is average at best. Each cutscene bore me a bit, especially since they cannot be skipped. The whole story is very clichéd and about a knight in white armor who saves the world. Some people may like it, I don't buy it. I didn't care about a single character, not a single tragic death made an impression on me. Everything in the story seems very artificial: the characters' emotions, their motivations or their dialogues. The combat system is very satisfying. I regret that the stealth system does not give as much satisfaction, I do not know what it results from, but stealth in this game works moderately. To sum up: a very correct sandbox, if you are not a big fan of Japanese culture or assassins creed like me, I recommend waiting until the game is discounted.
Juego muy buen hecho. En muchos sentidos. Me parece muy bello su apartado gráfico, su música, la historia. Y la jugabilidad es muy fresca, eso es muy bueno en este juego. Recomendable de verdad.
Great game not without its flaws but they will hopefully be patched out in time. Great graphics and awesome mechanics, great way for Sony to move on after that shambles tlou2


Игра очень понравилась, японская стилистика очень зашла, хороший сюжет и интересный гемплей.
Impressionant game. Amazing graphics, nice story, awesome gameplay and combat, The story is interesting and captivating the protagonist isn't charismatic but is understandable because the protagonist lost everything. The graphics are amazing because the details of the world, the vegetation and the illumination are beautiful. The combat is awesome you actually fells like a samurai in 1274 and the dev did a incredible job in the combat with different postures and ways to kill a enemy
This is the first time I’ve ever reviewed something but with the Ghost of Tsushima I pretty much had to. It is one of the most fun games I’ve ever had playing a game. It has amazing sword fighting combat, gorgeous scenery and graphics, fun stories/missions, and so many little things that make the game great like making haiku or practice cutting bamboo. Now it’s not perfect I do have problems with the horse but that’s pretty much every game with a horse. Besides that the other problems are minor like Jin sometimes jumps on stuff I didn’t want for him to jump on or a bug that popped up when I was dueling that didn’t allow me to draw my sword for a second. All in all Ghost of Tsushima is a game that I will highly recommend to those that like sword fights, beautiful scenery, and/or a good story.

The most unexpectedly pleasant surprise in gaming of this year which didn't receive even half of the marketing campaign the train wreck that TLOU2 is did. Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful game. From the immersive atmosphere, to the absolutely badass gameplay that makes you feel like a real samurai, or ninja, or both, depending on your style. It's an open world game without the boring, repetitive side quests, where exploration through the numerous and varied locations feels like a delight, not a chore. It's also a love letter to Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa. If you like samurai stories, action, good open world games, Japanese culture, then this game is a must for you. Do not sleep on this game.
TLDR: If you LIKE assassins creed then you will LOVE this game. There are some problems but if you liked games like AC Origins and AC Odyssey, you wont find said problems to be bothersome. I wont talk about specific story spoilers but I will make vague references that you might not want to hear about. No actual spoilers but it will be something vague like "the second half wasn't as good" so yeah. That being said, lemme explain myself: The Good- The world is amazing. It's not a huge world but the game sure makes it feel like it. It is smaller than most (insert d1ck joke here) but it is filled with things to do and even in the empty areas of the world, the actual beauty of the world itself makes up for it. There are small interactions freely in the world like being able to pay respects to dead bodies or crouching off of the edge of cliffs for a cool picture in the extremely accommodating photo mode. The story is pretty good, its definitely on the better end of above average and there are many surprises in the story itself so if you though that you could tell exactly what the game was going to be about based on trailers or the first part of a lets play you saw or something, trust me- even though you dont know me-, you will not be disappointed. The combat is very good. Its not very difficult to learn so if you thought that if was going to be annoyingly difficult then don't worry. It does go both ways though and if you do want the challenge, im sure the hard difficulty will accommodate you. Its the perfect blend of complexity and accessibility- not too easy, not too hard. The duel sections are challenging at first but once you get a hang of the controls, you will actually want to engage in these duels more and more as they are extremely satisfying to pull off first try. I dont really want to mention all of the pros because as numerous as they may be, I do want to mention the bad and iffy parts. The Bad- There are slight narrative problems with the world and story but I WILL NOT MENTION SPOILERS Lets start with the story You do really get hyped for the story and it has a few set-pieces that take full advantage of the concept but the last of the three acts of the game are not nearly as exciting as the first 2. Its still good but the 2nd act is way better. Thinking on it now, the 3rd act isn't even bad, it only feels that way to me because the game was building up the story because the 1st act was good and the 2nd act was even better. The ramp up ends there and the third act is just as good as the first so idk, if you buy it, you will know what I mean. The world is amazing, probably the best looking and most beautiful that I have played up to date but, like with the story, there is a ramp up in the world that flattens one you get to the last 3rd of the map. You see, the map unlocks with the acts story so as you progress through the story, you also progress through the world. The problem is that the last act brings you the most boring province- as I like to call it. Unlike the story, the last act provides a much worse province than the first act. Completely covered in snow, the last province offers nothing interesting in the world in terms of aesthetics . There is still the same variety of things to do in the world but the actual look takes a hit. those were the pros and cons so yeah 9/10 I gtg my pc's gonna die
1) Beautiful graphics and level design; 2) Great main story with multiple side characters with their own stories. 3) Great combat - wanna be an assassin, do stealth; wanna be an archer - here you're; wanna go open-combat, here a unique mechanic for you. Definitely worth buying!
Amazing, i loved playing and am looking forward to spending the next couple of months replaying this stunning game, best samurai game i have ever played, get a ps4 just to play this masterpiece.
Наиграл 4 часа очень красива игра! Видил много косяков но поставлю 10 потому что все ставят)
The game is an open world action adventure with all you can expect such as farming, sneaking, fighting and an engaging story. The story arc of the NPCs as well as the main character are bleak and tragic but compelling and the game graphically and mechanically is excellent. There are a few bugs here and there but nothing that breaks the game or, at least for me, prevents me from losing myself in the game. I am not a big fun of open world game, I consider the busy bee side quests boring and repetitive but GoT was a pleasant surprise, far better than any other game of this kind and all together it is an excellent IMHO. It is important to know there is no level gating, no microtransaction, no season passes no XP boosters, nothing of the sort, you can do what you want, when you want as long as you progress forward with the main quest. My score would be a 9.5 but due to the apparent ongoing review bombing I decided to go for a 10.

In my time, I read a lot of books about the code of the samurai, the setting I really liked and satisfied my expectations. Yes, perhaps the gameplay is repetitive, but the visual, atmosphere and everything they did to immerse themselves in this world, deserves respect.

Great game with a Japanese setting. I have not seen such a beautiful game for a long time, I am very pleased with the purchase. I advise everyone to play!
I don't give this a 10 lightly and I more subscribe to the notion that 10/10 scores don't necessarily mean a game is absolutely perfect - more that its exceptional in my opinion in and has pretty much everything covered, with only the smallest gripes you might consider here or there - and even in those cases probably boil down to preference. For starters I am really happy that this game didn't turn out to be a Dark Souls type of game, not that I have anything against those, just that for me personally I'm terrible at those types of games no matter how much I practice, and I'm by no means a skill-less gamer, Dark Souls style simply isn't my strength. For me the difficulty feels fair, you wont easily take out scores and scores of enemies in a smallish location like you can in Assassin's Creed games however with careful and thoughtful execution you can still mix it up in a small skirmish of enemies - mixing a range of attacks like jumping from your horse into a strike on an enemy, throwing an explosive, shooting a bow and/or unleashing a flurry of strikes with your samurai sword for example. There is no lock on to enemy targets and occasionally depending on terrain and situation this has worked against me in a pinch, however I can imagine and experienced many more problems with constantly having to lock on to enemies in other games. The scenery and graphics are gorgeous, its surreal going from a lethal furious burst of a duel or battle scene to the peaceful experience of looking around and seeing leaves floating about, wind blowing, sunlight glistening through the trees and rolling hills. I have heard some negativity around open worlds, if a game is a great game and has good content I don't see how that can't be done well in an open world and for me this game succeeds. There are no markers etc and instead you get an organic feel with wind blowing in the direction you have marked on the map or the current tale you are doing guides you in. The progression system is rewarding and you never feel like you haven't earned something or get given things too easily or even too quickly. I began playing this game while having a lot of unplayed games in my back catalogue, or half played games, so only a few hours in although I was enjoying the cinematics and style of the game I wasn't rushing back to it, something I get with most of my new games, simply from the paralysis of having too much to choose from, however as I kept playing it, a few more hours in and I just found myself hooked. I have read some criticisms - one of which was the voice acting and story not being great. While I don't expect any technical marvel of a video game to also have a Shakespearean story to match, I have by no means found the story not to be engaging or to not care about the characters in it. While the voice acting of the main character and perhaps others can sometimes come across a bit bland, it could simply be a reflection of how they talked, the tone, and style of the time, its not immersion breaking to me to the point that I don't feel like the main character isn't committed to his goals. I highly recommend this game :)

Having a blast with this game! Fast loading times, yet great graphics. Also not an insanely big map so that it feels overwhelming. Instead, enough to explore, do and enjoy every little detail of it. AI not always the brightest, but hoping they will patch this.


This is my first review, but had to make an account cause this game is so good. Completely immersive. How is this game not getting 10/10 from every critic?? Might be my favorite ps4 game.
such a great improve since ubi's 'copy&paste' open world, just like a Assassin's creed super edotion. As an PS player with 2 years open world experience, I 100 percent recommand this game to all playstation player. Probably the best open world game I jad ever try
Great game, doesn't matter though. My opinion. You might have a different one. My opinion isn't your opinion. Why are you here? Do you want your opinion to change? Buy the game, see if you like it. Or maybe don't, and you'll never know. It's a well made game with good gameplay and graphics. What else? It's not perfect. Whatever else could you want me to say? Go play the game and see for yourself. Don't trust me. Don't trust anyone. We may be lying. How could you know? Some people are lying. They're salty. Don't pay attention to them. Play the game though, seriously. It's a fun experience. Nothing else I can tell you. Don't go to metacritic to make your life decisions.
This game plays like a damn fiddle! Gameplay and the depiction of 13th century Japan are superb. Just a prime example of what listening to your fanbase and focusing on good writing, pacing and believable characters can lead up to.
Ghost of Tsushima has one of the best open worlds in any video game. The gameplay is immersive and beautiful. The combat is very engaging, brutal, and allows the player to be creative. This game is a great experience and worthy of being called a masterpiece.
Прекрасные персонажи, прекрасная история и великолепный колорит востока. В отличие от игры, которую нельзя называть, смело ставлю этой игре высшую оценку.
Отличная боевая система, занимательный сюжет, очень увлекательное приключение, нет повестки, все на своем месте. Игра шедевр, по сравнению с недавним приключением мести лесби.
This game is a very good game along side of The Witcher 3 and Red Dead Redemption (the two of my most favourite game). The combat and environemtn of the game is top notch and envolves an indivitual to play for countless hours. The story is incredible due to its own strength and pacing.
Великолепная игра, которая как завершает поколение PS4, так и предваряет PS5. Необыкновенно красивый мир, Япония, в которую можно влюбиться с первых мгновений. Не вижу смысла сравнивать с Last of Us 2, — обе игры прекрасны. Спасибо Sony, что вы есть!!!
Definitely best Sucker Punch game and probably GOTY too, I liked this game so much, combat was fun, and story was decent too, found some bugs, but it'll be hopefully fixed, already have a platinum for it so I can say if u dont know if to buy it, do it. Its great game for me, my most favourite PS4 game with God of War, and sometimes we see ass of Jin Sakai, GOTY 100% :D
This game is such amazing! I'm estonished every 10 mins. Everything is pretty fine and fancy, I especially appreciate the scenario, quests, and almost of all the musics, japaneses sounds, it impose a really dope atmosphere in it. The main character player is doing well, his movements are fluid and precise, winning a fight is so satisfying. I usually never use the photo mode in games, but this one is really genuine and complet, a lots of options to setup and it's easy to use! In cons, I deplore the graphic quality of the water, especially the sea! There are also some motion and camera bugs. I hope all this will be solved in the next updates. In conclusion, I recommend this game, it's a real videogame gem that should be made at least once in your life if you are a real fan of video games, adventure and poetry.
Great game. I've picked it up without knowing too much about it, just heard my friends talk a little bit about the game. It was an impulse buy, but I'm so glad I did it. The graphics and atmosphere are fantastic, breath taking, everything is dynamic, the wind blows all the leaves, moves all the trees all the grass. Three's not a single scene without dynamic elements, the game feels very alive and very Japanese. The graphics and art are a solid 10/10. The story is a 8.5 to an occasional 9 for me, but I'm willing to give it a pass if only for the amazing atmosphere this game creates.



This game has the potential to excite and draw in many new people to Japanese culture and history, as it did with myself. The landscapes and vistas in this game are some of the most beautiful and detailed I have ever witnessed in a video game. I really enjoyed the combat stance mechanic I found it fun and intuitive in design. The use of wind and color makes world traversal an absolute joy rather than a chore. The only negative I have been able to find is that the mouths' of the characters, when speaking are sometimes a bit off. However this is when the selected language is Japanese and I am not sure whether it seems off to me because I am not Japanese myself and not familiar with how to speak or enunciate in Japanese. This is the first game that had me actively wandering the open world looking for fox dens just to give the little fellows a good head pat for their hard work (10/10 best feature). Story - 9/10 Characters - 8.5/10 Graphics - 10/10 Game play and combat - 9/10 Wind - 10/10 All together it is a game i had no idea about until i watched several reviews and saw that this was a game for me. I am very happy to have picked it up and it is now among one of my favorite all time games such as the new God of war, Red dead 2, Horizon Zero Dawn and the Wither 3.
This game is the ultimate Samurai experience. Sucker Punch did an amazing job at creating poetic landscapes and gameplay designs that will immerse you into feudal japan and all the imagery around it. The combat is great, the number of armors and their customizations are amazing, the characters are interesting and the story, while nothing groundbreaking, is quite cool. I personally can't get enough of this game. I really hope Sucker Punch will work on a "sequel" in the future, maybe even in mainland Japan.
Great game. Beautiful open world. Story is historically accurate and feels compelling. Combat is challenging but feels rewarding and enjoyable. I always love a game where equipment models allow you to change your characters fashion. Overall it just does everything right. If you ever wanted the Red Dead experience but from Japanese perspective and with samurai and Mongolian invaders, this game will feel right up your alley.
This is the best game in the last 2 years. Everything about her is excellent. The plot is interesting, the graphics are excellent, an interesting system of character development, very cinematic scenes. The game is very elaborate. It can be seen that the developers are smart people who respect their project
I love games like this. Showing authentic japanese historical culture and deep combat system with a beautiful open world is the stuff of legend. I wasnt even a huge fan of previous Sucker Punch games but this entry was right in my lane. Better than Assassins creed.
I liked this exciting story about the exploits of Japanese warriors. The game is made with love. But the graphics could be better. They did such a great plot and production. This game has the spirit of Japan and traditional human values. The gameplay is good. I was not bored. Thanks to the developers !

First of all, I'd like to say thank you to Sucker Punch for putting in so much effort and dedication in making this game. From the first scene of Jin riding through the tall grass, this game got me having goosebumps. I love the story of the game, I'm about 10 hours into the game at Act 2, and as serious toned and some hiccups in the story, the general scheme of things in the big picture, I love the story very much. I'm not going to delve into it much to prevent spoilers. The gameplay was a massive surprise to me, I was someone who saw the first trailer of the game and was like oh god here we go again another Assassin's Creed. However once I started playing the actual combat, I fell in love. It incorporates so many systems and melds them superbly together. Using stuff from Sekiro, Nioh, Arkham Asylum, Assassin's Creed, I'm not gonna fault them or said they copied, cause THIS ISN'T A BLATANT COPY, they refined it, balanced the combat out, and my oh my was it satisfying, every second of the game I'm looking forward to combat. And the showdown mechanic, I thought it'll get old, like I thought nah I'll get used to it and it's gonna be my cheese tactic, but it requires a surprising amount of concentration, enemies in the later missions start to fake you out more, and they may attack almost immediately, and it really keeps you on your toes! The stealth however, is lackluster, I have to admit the AI for stealth is so easily cheesed it's almost laughable. Enemies can see a ton of dead bodies on the floor, give a shout, and return to their positions, and I'm playing the game on hard. And the bow is almost overpowered if you can land your headshots cause you'd be like an invisible ghost sniper where no one detects you. What I found preferable was playing a mix of both stealth and combat. I wanna talk about the Haiku Composition, this is my favorite part of Ghosts of Tsushima. What?! Haiku?! Yeah, I absolutely love this feature of the game. I felt emotionally attached to every Haiku I "composed". The music during the composition, the ambient sounds of water, birds, leaves rustling, everything came together, and some Haiku had me holding back a manly tear. Such a simple feature, but it gave me such a great immersion in the game. This made the game so special in my heart. I also love how the game, is.. A GAME. Some open world games or recent releases are trying to mix too much real life into games. I do not want to spend 2mins trying to pick up an item, I do not want to get off my horse, watch an animation to pick my item up, get back on my horse. I know some have complained about the horse clipping through the thick forest sometimes, how it goes through some bamboos, I DO NOT MIND, rather than getting stuck on every single bamboo shoot or tree stump or rock, or riding of a teeny curb and falling off the horse, this game keeps it moving. It respects my time as a player and not make it a chore to play, if i wanted complete realism I would not be playing a game. I love it then I'm constantly moving, constantly making progress, and not taking 10-15mins to run from one objective to another. The graphics, but in short, i would say the graphics are magical, I like that it isn't too realistic, but the attention to detail, the particle effects, I feel like I'm transported into another world, and that's what gaming is all about. I've spent hours in the photo-mode, taking pictures of the biomes. And that takes me to the biomes as well, none of the environments are copy and paste, yes there are the same buildings and stuff, but they are all placed very differently, and every new area i go to, I feel like i'm actually going somewhere new, and that's a feat for an open world game! I did encounter some bugs, none of them game breaking, none took me out of the experience and none detracted me from completing a level. The checkpoint system in this game is amazing, and I would like to praise the quick loading times as well, sometimes a little too fast I really hope they add a "press X to continue" feature, I can see they put effort in drawing the art for the loading screen tips, and I'd love to read them and appreciate them, so Sucker Punch please give us a chance to do so! All in all, this game delivers on what they set out to do. It is a samurai game, it makes me feel like a samurai, it makes me feel like I'm in Japan (yes I have visited Japan 4 times). This game holds a special place in my heart, alongside Sekiro, Nioh, Onimusha and Tenchu. Thank you Sucker Punch, we love it, thank you :) Note: 10/10 not because it is perfect, but because this game is special, unique in it's own ways, and I'll probably remember this experience for the rest of my life.

As usual sony does great job with their exclusives. SP made great job and performance since last their big project(infamous). Visual 10 out of 10, yeah its lack sometimes with detailing, but be aware how much power game requires and sucker punch took all juices from ps4pro. Gameplay: not easy to imagine and perform samurai technic ingame, but they did it perfect. Its not an assassin creed- its tsushima!!! Looks like GOTY acquired Good job
God damn i love this game. It feel like assassin creed 2 (so when it was good) made in japan. The game look magnificent. The foliage is insanely good. the combat is weighty smart and skillful, you will feel you get better at it. at first 2 guy is hard but by the end you will take down a small army by yourself. the story is highly inspire by Akira Kurosawa. If you like that style of telling you will love this story. There's even a fking game mode having his name. all in black and white. No lvl cap no story obligation want to take on the first castle at the very beginning go on do it just DO IT. I love pretty much every character, none of them feel out of place. There are some issue, being stuck in a hill, the camera trying to kill you (joke on you enemies also does sound when attacking you no need of my eye biacth), The ai is well assasincreed 2 lvl, either ulter trash or predator like. The good outright kill of the bad if you start it at 9 am you might still be playing it at 9am the next morning.
Игра просто топчик. Графика на высшем уровне (для консольной игры это и впрям хороший графон), малое количество багов, а также интересное повествование.



Probably the best and most immersive open world combat I have experienced in this generation. Compelling story and a well done Japanese dub. No quest feels like a chore; moreover you end up pursuing side content because you want to engage with the world as much as possible. What an end to a generation.
Игра имеет очень красивую, передовую и кинематогрофичную графику. Сюжет очень крутой
This game is easily the best game i have played this year. immersive story with awesome graphics. The game also have one of the best and satisfying combatsystems i have ever witnessed. I highly recommend the game for people enjoying a mix of storydriven and rpg type games. the only thing i have to criticize it on is that i wish the main story was longer. definitely worthy of a GOTY nomination
This game takes you to the place the developers of last decade wish they could have brought you. Everything the Ps4 Pro has to offer is a solid reflection of this piece of media. This, is the pinnacle of the Ps4 Pro, the absolute zenith of its prosperity. This game shows you why PlayStation is the place to not only play, but to dream and create. The environment is captivating, mixed with the raw emotions set by each individual character, sets the scenes that are shown in an all new light. The combat is ferocious, allowing you to change the way you fight in a moments notice. This is what PlayStation is all about and this game is HIGHLY recommended. #Spoilerfree #LongliveRain$


A good candidate for game of the year. This game is absolutely amazing and beautiful. The attention to detail in this game is stunning. Combat camera is not perfect but is passable, stealth is ok but game play and overall movement or essence of this game is simply awesome. The fact that this is Sucher Punch first attempt of a game like this is amazing. I would even go as far to dare to say that is even better than any of AC games. And that's say alot about this game Its simple just buy the game. Experience, Explored, SEE and HEAR it for yourself. Well done!!! Sucker Punch. Well done!!!
Finished 1st act, did a lot of side quests, the game looks amazing, feels amazing, it is rough in the begining in my opinion but once you spend some technique points in the samurai skill tree the fighting gets really awesome. Love the minimalist UI and no minimap by default. Graphics, audio, voice acting is amazing too. GJ
Wow wow wow. So I just finished getting my platinum trophy for this game and what a ride! This game has been such an addictive adventure that took me through some really high highs! I was expecting the game to be god but not this good. This is my first sucker punch game and after playing Ghost I feel like I’ve been sleeping on them. I think I owe it to them to at least check out their other games now given that ghost of Tsushima is so amazingly good. The open world in this game is so breath taking and the gameplay is so fluid that it makes for a winning combination. I thought I would get tired of the gameplay after a while but towards the end the game really picks up the pace and throws some really though enemies at you that give you a real challenge! I played on hard mode and I highly recommend it rather than medium difficulty. The enemies don’t just stand around to wait their turn to die. Hard mode gives a slightly harder challenge that I think fits this game much better. The story in this game is also amazing! Coming from the last of us 2 where everything was a complete **** show, I have to saw I really really appreciated what sucker punch did with this story and how they delivered it with compelling side characters that actually mattered to me. Everyone that has more than a couple side mission attached to them are excellently written. They have done such an amazing job and I highly recommend this game. I feel like this game isn’t getting the recognition it really deserves from the gaming media outlets. Clearly looking at the er reviews, you can see how many people really enjoyed the game, just like I did. This is going down in my top 5 games of ALL TIME! That is saying a lot! Go check out this game! It’s worth every penny and then some!
I have not played many single-player action games since Metro: Last Light, GTA V & Battlefield One but 18+ hours in this game & i can say this is most beautiful, story-driver action game ever. The music & background score is very immersive. The last game had such of music was Battlefield 1. The way player does combat is just makes you feel like a warrior. Hope this game also comes on PC with mods support, it will be totally worth to play this glorious game with Ultra Ray-tracing Graphics with DLSS & modding.
Отличный эпичный самурайский экш,с мега захватывающим миром и атмосферой,идеально переданного разработчиками духа той эпохи

I don't usually rate games but I really wanted to support it for great efforts put in this game. The graphics, gameplay, soundtracks, character improvements in this game are so fresh among other games that came out recently. I've played it since it came out and except for minor bugs (that do not disturb gameplay one bit), I don't think there is anything I can criticize it for.
Just finished act one after non stop play since Friday. Amazing game! Sure some stuff is familiar but gameplay and graphics are amazing. Mainstream critics won’t like it as much because it doesn’t feature prominent LGBTQ alphabet people. Cry me a river then comment ritualistic suicide in river :) best game of 2020!


Love this game, the characters are interesting and the environment is stunning, I love exploring it. The random encounters and combat break keep things interesting. My only criticisms are no lock on for fights and some of the search quests are in massive areas.
Хорошая игра,особенно мне понравилось геймплей и атмосфера,в целом можно купить игру за такую цену,но если тебе не жалко денег

This game is amazingly awsome! It made me want to make side missions and find shrines and so on. And not even rdr2 made me wabt to gather **** haha and that says something about this game. Story is solid and the mightung mechanic is a 8/10 . So this was a real Sucker punch in my face

The game is absolutely stunning and gorgeous. Sure, it's a downgrade from what we saw at E32018 but it's still a damn good game. There's also a variety of side stuff to do, but I hardly ever experienced it due to how engrossed I was in the story. There are some problems with the AI but that's my only gripe. Definitely a very good game. I would go as far as to say it's in the same level as God Of War!
Only real negative is the frame rate. This game needs 60 fps. It could be because I'm playing on an original PS4, but the frame rate seems really janky at some points. With that said, the game play is ridiculously fun and the story is enough to keep me wanting to play, but nothing really special.

You know a game is a visual and atmospheric masterpiece when you walk around trying cinematic camera angles instead or running like a chicken all the time. This is Witcher 3 level good plus an amazing combat system. Thank you Sucker Punch, you mended the wound that TLOU2 had just tore through my heart. Get this game, now.
Only reason it isn't a 10 for me is the bad Japanese lip sync and the repetitive open world collection stuff, other than that the combat is amazing and never gets boring


Uff lo acabo de terminar un completo juegazo DEsdes su ambientacion hermosa hasta su combate me fascinaron CIerto que algunas misiones son repetidas pero con esa exploración y combate es para decir dame mas de lo mismo Altamente recomendado
Hermoso juego desde el principio hasta el final totalmente recomendado, una compra segura que no te arrepentirás
One of the best Games I have ever played. Beautiful graphics and use of colors throughout the world. The story is amazing. The gameplay is fun and gets better as you learn more skills. A little sad the Japanese dub has bad lip syncing. But overall 10 out of 10
Хорошая игра, не шедевр, но просто очень хорошая игра. Без пропаганды, без абсурда, чуши и попыток донести какие-то свои дурацкие идеи и взгляды. Хорошая игра, которая позволяет полностью окунуться в Японию позднего средневековья периода первого монгольского вторжения на территорию Японии. Как с любовью и с уважением она сделана. Как тонко передаёт отношение монголов к культуре и обычаям японцев... Как хорошо показан противник... Не просто тупым стадом без идеи и смысла, а умным и расчётливым с конкретной целью. Игра очень хорошая. Не хватает игр созданных умными и образованными людьми, созданных с любовью... А не насилованием сотрудников ради показухи своих радикально-левых взглядов школьника-переростка (аля дракман и анита саркисян). Уже тошнит от пропаганды. Игра как глоток свежего воздуха среди всего этого мусора, что пихают в голову молодым людям. Очень жаль, что журналисты как обычно, жрут кал и другим советуют(


What a way to end the PS4's life cycle. the story is captivating the combat mechanics are some of the best in any video game. difficult but rewarding. idk what the hell is wrong with some of those critics giving it a 60.... this game is not a 60, a 95 at the very least.

Amazing game from the start to the end . Don't care the people who find anything offensive if it's made by a white man. Keep up the hard work,game of the year forsure.
Best Samurai game ever, the photo mode is awesome and can make u addict to take every picture in the game.And it just 35 GB FOR REAL. I'M very reccomend you to play it. This is Masterpiece. Good Job Sucker Punch
my first review for a game and this is the game to pop my cheery on it, what a great game and combat great with a old world that look better the the witcher 3 in places but yes the open world in the 3 act and the same got to map and do is start to wear thin but the fast action sword combat. If cyberpunk was not come later out this year it be my number 1 of this year for me
What an amazing experience this game is. I’ll freely admit that the only con that I could find is the camera/lock on system was a little wonky at times. But other than that, this game is a literal work of art.
Jogo com uma gameplay e missões secundárias muito boas no geral. A arte gráfica aplicada é simplesmente estonteante, assim como a música. A história principal também é muito boa. Vale muito a pena! Um ótimo jogo para encerrar a geração PS4 com chave de ouro!
Это не игра - это гравюра. Эстетическое удовольствие. Особенно когда герой пишет хокку. Минусом можно назвать странную боевую камеру, которая немного гадит общее впечатление.
Un exclusivo perfecto para despedir la play station 4! Gráficos top, diseño artístico brutal, jcombates muy pulidos y divertidos. Gran doblaje y opciones y efectos para el audio


Beautifully amazing game, I don’t know how sucker punch pulled this off but they created a masterpiece right there! However I do sometimes feel like something is missing whenever I play it, but nevertheless this game deserves a 10
Best game ever, I have been playing video games for almost my whole life and honestly this is the first game in awhile (since maybe when Bioshock released) that I've played that has really immersed and amazed me. This is the most beautiful looking game i have ever played, i caught myself just sitting and looking around the world many times instead of playing because the scenery is absolutely gorgeous. The cut-scenes look stunning and are well directed and acted for both the Japanese and English voices, however lip syncing was done for the English version so it looks bad with the Japanese audio so there's that. The game-play is addicting, managing to be challenging enough without feeling unfair, feels satisfying when you are able to take on groups of enemies parrying and changing stances on the fly especially without taking damage. The stealth for me was serviceable if not a little easy however it feels like something they can patch and fix, luckily i didn't have many problems or bugs like a few others may have had. The narrative is really intriguing if you are into Japanese samurai culture and even if you aren't this game may get you interested, each character is well written and believable, especially the protagonist Jin who's actions throughout the game conflict with his samurai code, his way of life and cause problems. The side content is unique and just as interesting as the main story and if you love collectibles this game has you covered in spades with many of them spread throughout the map. The costumes and weapons as well as the skins you can get for them are really well designed and fun to collect too, first game in a long time that doesn't charge you for all the cosmetics. All in all this is a game well worth it's asking price, filled with fun content, a stunning world to explore, great game-play loop, respectful to the culture and history it is portraying (taking inspiration from classic samurai films by Akira Kurosawa and the like, loved Kurosawa mode) and is a perfect game to end this generation of PlayStation on. Sucker Punch made something special here and really gave their all so they deserve great praise for it. Only thing i hope they add in is a New Game Plus+ mode where you can replay and keep all cosmetics, upgrades and collectibles to have a fun and chill, cathartic play-through.

Прекрасная игра, с отлично переданным духом самурайской эпохи. Хвалить стоит, за прекрасную графику, боевую систему, вкус с которым сделаны многие детали такие как добивания, хождение по полю, когда герой тянет руку к стеблям цветов. И отдельной похвалы заслуживает фоторежим, я просто нашёл прекрасное место, добавил частиц и, включил музыку которая доступна в этом режиме сидел залипнув 10 минут. Игру рекомендую

This game is amazing. Great combat and a nice linear story. Feudal Japan is gorgeous in this game and is one of the best looking games I've played. The story isn't the best I've seen, and like a few others have mentioned the characters are a bit flat but I do think this goes hand in hand with personalities of feudal warriors back then that were high on honor and discipline. Overall this game is one of the best I've played. I still think God of War was a better overall game but this games combat is more satisfying to me.

This game is absolutely breathtaking, the story is so beautiful, I did not expect to actually feel some emotion to characters overall enough to make me cry. The environment and they way you interact with others is pretty accurate like how you pass your hands through the tall grass and bond with other animals. People have said that he doesn't show emotion towards people but i would imagine its because hes a samurai and he keeps his emotions in checks, so I do not know why many you tubers or other critics criticizes that because it is just logical and in the main character does mention it. I did finish the game I only have about 6 side quest remaining and a few places to explore but overall the game is amazing. The combat system is so well made. you cant just go into a fight expecting to win, you must be attentive to every warriors movement because sometimes they just switch up the attacks. I noticed that in each district the mongols attack are very different almost like they evolved and know your movements. Ghost of Tsushima is just so well made that you can read all the reviews look at all the amazing scores but its one of those games where you have to get it because its just so beautiful to understand what people are saying.


I've played this game for about 10 hours. A solid 9-9.5/10 giving it a ten to counter the people who have it a bad review. Love the wind guiding system and the birds bringing you to points of interest. Absolutely amazing sceneries and really fun gameplay! Will update when I finish the game . Awwww job sucker punch I love it!
Pre ordered and not disappointed. I haven't had this much fun playing a game in a long time. Rated 10 because the only way I could come up with problems this game has was by sitting down and having to think hard and even then they were very minor issues. Gameplay is some of the most stable and immersive I have seen from a new game. This is my game of the year and I hope everyone playing it enjoys it as much as I do. Love the game and I can't wait to see what sucker punch comes out with next!
I really enjoy this game it has an awesome combat system,the world is beautiful and the story is very amazing I'm enjoying this game so much for me this is has to be game of the year contender best game of 2019
Everything from the voice acting to the graphics make this a pure classic. I quit playing Last of Us 2 to play this. This is how you make a game and story. I will keep this spoiler free, but I knew nothing about this game going in and was extremely surprised at how open world it is. Think Assassins Creed meets Dark Souls.
Depois faço uma análise. Mas estou dando 10 pra esse jogo. Pelo mesmo motivo que as pessoas deram 10 pro The last of us parte 2.. palhaçada. O jogo tem uma história horrível! O usuários não gostaram fancolatras, aceitem.. jogo games desde o ps1, e sempre curti a naughty dog, mas esse jogo foi um tiro no pé, e um tapa na cara de quem confia cegamente em uma empresa de jogos.... Naughty dog, próximos jogos, só falo que vai ser bom, quando eu ver trailer (que mostre a verdade) e jogar.. nunca mais elogio essa empresa antecipadamente
Игра просто шикарна - графика, сюжет, геймплей. Дракману стоит поучиться как делать отличные игры.


Everything about this game is good, I mean everything except the dumb enemies while on stealth mode. It feel like enemies just want to killed from behind so they usually don't turn around. But everything else is great
With interesting takes on UI and HUD, as well as truly amazing use of color and motion in the environment Ghost of Tsushima is great. I found the main character and most NPCs a little flat, but I guess its a good thing SuckerPunch didn't try to make them the focus of the game. Instead they focused on the world, and what an amazing world it is. I could spend all day riding Sora (My trusty loyal horse) around the forests, roads and shores of these island

Combat amazing-Graphics alright-Story Very Good-Kinda sucks it doesn't have a endgame I really enjoyed this game it was my first game to ever get a platinum trophy on ps4 :-) Thank you sucker punch.
Игра пиздатая просто прям ну вообще рекомендую всем абсолютно всем даже если тебе 1 день, мне пахую на запятые
A very nice game, nice story (so far), combat system is slightly challenging and very smooth. the open world is really beautiful and big. Customization is present but not very extensive, you can also improve the main character's combat abilities in many aspects. only negatives i have is that i mis (3/4)attire/costume presets slots, so you can manually edit and name eache slot and quickly switch to when you want to change your costume. Because that is already getting tedious. And the dismemberment can be kicked up a notch, it couldn’t hurt to see a arm/hand, leg or head flying off so ounce and a while. And this game deserves better hardware, if a improved PC version comes out i would buy it in a heartbeat!
Немому сказать что невероятный сюжет, но вся задумка меня впечатлила. Геймплей оказался лучше, чем ожидал. Все впечатление от игры сложилось именно на 10/10

This game is a great example of historical fiction done right. With the actions of the protagonist being called into question by adherents to the Bushido code, Jin has to adapt to the evolution of warfare that the invading mongols represent. I immediately noticed, after a few hours of play, Ghost of Tsushima has a lot of Zelda BotW DNA in it, and that's terrific. The combat is tight, dynamic and challenging, especially if played on hard difficulty. With tight gameplay, impressive performance going along with boundary pushing graphics and art direction, this game is the perfect capstone to the PS4's exclusive library as it seeks to move on to the next generation of consoles. This is a game of exceptional quality that continues to surprise me and leave me staring in wonder at the gorgeous vistas all throughout Tsushima. The most ambitious part of this whole package, to me, is the lack of any sort of level gating for missions and content. Rather than increasing difficulty by bloating the stats of enemies in a leveling system, they instead become more specialized, have more tricks up their sleeve and use more aggressive tactics the further you progress in the game. The progression is instead tied to Jin unlocking new tricks of his own and improving his own skills as you explore the island throughout the game. It creates a sense of true progression that feels rewarding, thematic and appropriate for the setting of the game. This is the most impressive game I've played in a long time. I recommend this to anyone who has a passing interest in it. i'm excited to count Sucker Punch along side CD Project Red, FromSoftware, Guerrilla Games and Id Software as a company who's work outshines the rest.
Атмосфера - 10 (очень сильно захватывает, здорово проработан мир) Графика - 8 (есть мыло, иногда текстуры залезают друг на друга) Боёвка - 7 (камера не самая удобная, но удовольствие от боя получаешь очень большое) Звук - 10 (шелест ветра, музыкальные вставки, всё сделано прекрасно) Игра прекрасна своей необычностью. Для меня главное чтобы я не хотел бросать играть, и в эту игру я готов играть и играть. Спасибо разрабам.


The point of this review is to advise a potential buyer whether this is a good enough game to purchase. After just beating the game yesterday (Not 100% for the game though), I cannot recommend this game enough. The game is visually stunning! I found myself stopping to use the photo mode, and that's coming from someone who hardly ever uses that feature, everything was given attention to detail. The animations are very fluid in combat. The trees and grass blowing with the wind, the armor your character wears, etc. I constantly found myself amazed even towards the end of the game. The controls are very intuitive, finally a game that takes advantage of the touchpad for the DS4, I only hope that more games take this approach. You can swipe up on the touchpad to see where you need to go, or press it to go into stealth mode, or right to sheathe/unsheathe your sword. I love this feature and hope PS5 takes advantage of the DS5 controller like this game did for the DS4 controller. The combat is the meat and potatoes of this game, and it does not fail to impress. There is a learning curve to mastering combat, not dark souls or Sekiro, but still challenging all the way to the end. There are so many techniques to learn and master. The ability to switch stances to counter a specific enemy type (spearman, shield, brute, sword) have a great impact on your ability to defeat your opponents. The standoff mode is also very fun, you must wait for your opponent to strike, but sometimes the enemy will faint an attack, if you swing it'll cost you most of your health. However, if you succeed, the killing is satisfying. Plus, there are upgrades that allow you to chain your kills in standoff, making it extremely helpful in taking out as many enemies as possible in the beginning of combat. The stealth is where this game has issues (combined with some stupid AI), although luckily this game (with exception of certain missions) allows you to take on the game head on or try to sneak around and kill them quietly. I will say that stealth gets better as you learn new techniques and upgrade your weapons, however I found myself using the standoff mode. It's still fun, but not nearly as great as facing the enemy head on like a Samurai. I loved the story, I'll try to keep it spoiler free, but it is based on one of the Mongol invasions of the 1200s. Your character is trying to free Tsushima, all while internally struggling with the tactics he uses to defeat them. As it was frowned upon for a Samurai to be "sneaking around like a thief"(actual quote from the game), he must use what he can to free the island from the Mongols. A very gripping story that brings out some very memorable moments. Side quests are not great but are better than most open world games. Although the lack of HUD in this game helps with exploration of the Island, instead being guided by the wind and pillars of smoke. Sometimes you'll come across a fox and follow him to a shrine to unlock more slots for charms (useful ability boosters). Other times it'll revolve around helping a villager. The side stories luckily all tie into the main story. Which helps the story, because you get to know each of your companions and see that they too are human and go through struggles in their quest to repel the invasion. You see their worst, and their best, in their in personal struggles. Something that few games do well. In summary, Ghost of Tsushima is a great end to the PS4 generation. It takes the stale open world genre and refines it. The storytelling is by far one of the best I’ve seen all the way to the end. The combat is extremely satisfying, taking on varying enemies forcing you to adapt to each enemy type on the fly. A mostly HUD free game that allows the play to take in the visuals without any distractions. A quick loading system for fast travel and dying gives us a small glimpse of what PS5 will offer (I look forward to playing the PS5 version). With exception to how stealth is done in this game, along with some small bugs. This game is a must buy for anyone looking for a historically based Japanese Samurai game. Now if you’ll excuse me, I have to go liberate Tsushima from the mongels.
Guys it's a great game. The combat, the ambience, the story, the STANDOFFS, the atmosphere etc. It's just mind-blowing. Sucker punch did a great job. I hope it wins game of the year.

Its a great game, combat is very fun, the world is pure art, the atmosphere is awesome, allot do do beside the main story. I know this is kind of a meme, but it really makes you feel like a Samurai. If Cyberpunk 2077 does not live up to its hype, this will be my GOTY.


As of now, this is my GOTY. Let's start with the weaker aspect. Story was passable but not very relatable, especially towards the character. There was a lot of missed opportunity in character building and story-telling, like the epic battle with Masako could have been a great conflict moment but the only plus point was the epic background scenery during that fight. Other than those mentioned, I think the game excels at all other areas. Graphic, weather and environment: Mesmerizing. Character design, the world building ( realistic ancient Japan setting +++) and the showcase of the Japanese culture: Well presented. Stealth: great tools with acceptable AIs, felt like a Ninja doing them. Exploration: lots of activities that are meaningful and not too repetitive. Totally uplifted by the super awesome scenery. Melee Combat: my favourite part of the game. Improved and inspired by Souls-Bourne but with their own unique twist. Swinging the blade as Jin feels like a total badass. Sucker Punch is approaching this game with more of a down to earth setting but very cinematic presentation. Definitely Kurosawa inspired but it works really great as the game's major element. This makes each standoff, dual and boss fight epic AF. Definitely play this game. I bought my PS4 for this and God of War. Both of them totally lived up to my expectation.
This game in one word "Amazing". I compare this game with The Witcher 3, the diference, samurais. The graphics and the videogame in general are so incredible. At the begining not thought buy, because the games of stealth they are not my thing, but, this is adaptes at your style of game. For my 10/10.
After the huge fail of TLOU2 I think a lot of gamers waited for this game a long time. And give it a positive bombing 10/10. To be fair - this is a really GOOD game, but not a 10/10. Let's write Ubisoft on the cover instead of SP - I'll bet it would get a solid 6/10. It's a generic open world which looks stunning - I'll give it that. And it's also my fatigue of open world games too. It needs to be better than that to kick me in 2020. The setting is cool, the combat is okayish....but I didn't like the camera in narrow spaces - you'll get killed a lot because of the camera and the missing lock-on system, which is really annoying! Aside from that the side quests and loot-mechanics, talent systems etc. pp. are all like in 2015 - nothing new as I said. I hope it comes to pc to unlock the full potential of this beautiful game. At least there are no politics in this game and no lootboxes, this alone is a +2 today. Sad but true. So Nioh 2 keeps the No. 1 game for me this year and cannot be beaten by any other I think (no also not by CP2077 because I hate FPS). Nioh 2 has the best combat system in any game so far, waaaay better than Sekiro or DS3, Bloodborne. GOTY for me.

amazing game love the story and the graphics *chefs kiss* the gameplay is fluid and amazing andi havent gotten bored yet definately my game of the year only thing that could top this might be cyberpunk or spiderman ps5
This isn’t the best game of the year but one of the bests to play now. It has wonderful graphics and you really feel like a samurai at the feudal era of Japan. All the myths are interesting and exploring the map rewards you. It is the kind of game in which you prefer to spend your time traveling by horse instead of fast-travelling. Some missions are repetitive and some floor textures and water effects are really bad compared to the fantastic foliage that this game has, but nothing to worry about because they are often well camouflaged between the grass and the secondary missions aren’t boring at all. If you are thinking of buying the last game for the ps4 before ps5 comes out, I recommend it to you.
A very beautiful game and the combat system is smooth and the open world system is just amazing a lot of things to explore and the side quests are really well done props to sucker punch

The game is purely amazing. Fun combat, a huge map worth exploring, side missions and main missions. The graphics are beautiful, and the wind tracking mechanism is an amazing touch. I could go more into detail but I dont think I need to. You got to play this game.
Ghost of Tsushima is the most beautiful game I have ever played; and I have played many. I was looking forward to the release of this title, but I held my expectations in check. It has far exceeded my expectations and I realize now that I should have let them soar to begin with. Not only is the world aesthetically pleasing in a multitude of ways, but it also has fun gameplay. That's what games are supposed to be. Fun. I am personally a fan of narrative driven games and the fact that the story is so linear doesn't bother me much. However the reason Ghost of Tsushima isn't a 10 for me is some story aspects further into the game, but that is simply my preference. Another aspect of interest is the horse-riding mechanics. Sucker Punch doesn't try to reinvent the wheel here. The mechanics are smooth and you don't run into trees every two minutes. Yes I'm referencing you RDR2. Sword play is fun and the animation for cleaning your sword after battle my be my favorite mechanic in the whole game. It is not my favorite game ever, but it is in contention to perhaps be the best game I have ever played.



Amazing game - combat is awesome - you have several stances to choose and mix. Whole setting is masterfully created, you can feel Japanese culture and mythology coming in spades from this game.
I beat the game in about 20 hours and have done the mythic quests. The visuals are bonkers and the tone of the game is immersive as hell. Limited UI and using the wind to guide you will suck you into the experience for hours on end because SP realized a minimalist UI with their scenery is too hard to step away from. This game is exactly what a story driven, open world game should be. The combat feels extremely rewarding, and the one on one duels are completed masterfully. Once you obtain the Ghost stance later in the game, your combat becomes even more incredible. This is the best way the PS4 generation could have ended and will be one of the only games besides spiderman and god of war I'll 100% complete because it deserves it. Sucker Punch delivered a knockout blow and it should 100% win GOTY over any other game released this year.
This is the most beautiful game I’ve ever played. Not necessarily the graphics, though they are great, but the art style is gorgeous. Sword fighting mechanics start out easy and simple, but progress all throughout the game to add layers and complexity. My 10/10 score is me pleading with you to play this game: it’s not perfect in every way, but it is a MUST play.
With opinions being ever split between the hot takes of an increasingly corrosive games industry media and the cold disappointment of a growing section of disenfranchised gamers, finding themselves fenced into a no man’s land of wrong think that didn’t seem to be there only a few short years ago, Ghost of Tsushima is turning out to be the perfect candidate for a Goldilocks award as the game that manages to do pretty much everything it does, just right. That’s the strange thing, outside of the of the stunningly beautiful and dynamic world full of orange trees, purple flowers and luscious green grasses (to name just a few of the colourful flora you’ll encounter in the game), none of the core game dynamics seems to be particularly original or innovative; but then they don’t have to be, because the genius in Sucker Punch’s realisation is the studio’s stunning and brave decision to put all their collective talents into making a traditional video game designed to appeal, as much as possible, to anyone who enjoys playing video games, while having to accept the backlash of joy, gratitude and praise that such a hugely unpopular decision ended up bringing to the table.

Score tied in within the gameplay and scenery, made me feel like I was in feudal Japan. Gameplay felt fluid and brought the right amount of challenge to it. Story was great with awesome characters and relationships that made the adventure more fun and lovable. Great game, playstation made the right call for this being the final PS4 exclusive. Highly recommended to play

This game is amazing! Very much loved it. This is gotta be the Game of the year.
great game overall. stunning graphics. the use of wind and animals to guide the player is innovative. combat is interesting without lockon but you switch stances easily. the game seems very faithful to japanese culture. downside is the camera can be wonky sometimes.
Ghost of Tsushima is a welcomed rain in what I consider to be the gamers drought of summer. Sucker Punch brought us a game that was well thought out and pays homage to Japanese culture (minus a few minor details like the speed of speech and how the sword is at the hip etc. For the time era) while simultaneously reflecting an era from actual history. The way this game is crafted without a HUD, and most everything can be found organically in the world through exploration is amazing and really helps to enhance the stunning visuals while simultaneously enhancing the surrounding sounds from the wind in the trees, Birds chirping or even waves hitting the shore. The attention to detail is astonishing and it sometimes feels more like a work of art rather than an entertainment piece. I have put about 15 hours into the game and am always discovering something new, whether that be saving a farmstead or following a fox to a shrine, I have found that the game always has something for me to discover. It is a game where I can spend an hour wandering around and doing what would be essentially nothing in terms of story progression but still feeling like I accomplished something. This game has easily made it into my top 5 of all time. The only thing stopping me from giving this a 10 is that the combat is not my favourite. I do like the systems for stances however constantly having to switch between stances makes me feel like I'm playing rock paper scissors with enemies at times. I commend them for being creative with the system however, it just isn't to my taste.
Akira Kurosawa would be proud. Amazing story and Game play slathered in some of the nicest graphics and combat to date. Films to watch before you buy this game, Yojimbo, Rashomon, Throne of Blood and 13 Assassins.
I loved every bit of it, it is one of the most beautiful games i have ever played, if not THE most. The combat is Amazing and keeps getting better and better.

Sooo much fun. Havent had this much fun on a single player game in a while. Has a few little bugs thats why the 9 but if their all smoothed out its a 10 for sure. The game play is super addicting and graphically beautiful. Love all the different styles, ill be playing the black and white version on my 2nd play through. Soo much more to say and enjoy on this game. I cant even get through the game cause of the photo mode lol too many beautiful spots for photos.

Honestly really enjoying myself with this game. The combat is awesome and the sheer number of options you have to approach a fight is incredible. Standoffs, duels and being able to frighten enemies as the ghost feels great. The worlds landscape might be my favorite so far. However having to reveal everything on the map just by exploring is very time consuming and the travelers attire is a must due to this which is upsetting since it forces me to unequip my favorite outfit. The main story is good but the side characters tales are really well done. You only spend 4 missions with one side character but to me it was the most impactful of all them. Wish the enemy AI wasn’t so predictable when clearing out a camp stealthily. The horse needs a little work because the smallest jumps will knock him down. Also takes one hit and he throws you off even though he takes 4 arrows in a cutscene and just keeps going. There have been very few bugs but are fixed with a quick restart of the game. Was worried it would feel like an AC game but that fear was quickly resolved. This is the best ps4 exclusive of 2020 which truly surprised me.

Great graphics, especially for ps4, excellent story, perfect combat. Although I am an easy gamer so I would love to see easy difficulty made even more easier. The game is perfect tho. Everything you could expect from a ps4 exclusive and would be a great introduction for somebody who hasn't tried PlayStation or even console gaming. Thank you, Sucker Punch and Sony. You made a great job.

After completing the game at 100% and achieve the platinum trophy I can say that Ghost of Tsushima is the best game so far from Sucker Punch Productions. The game is well written, the side activities have great rewards, has the best photo mode in a game and the combat is fluid, it is not a hack and slash game you have to think and attack with precision and strategy. One of the best exclusive games from Sony.



Ghost of tshushima is one of the most stylish games I have ever played. The graphics are breathtaking as you stand on top of a mountain and look out across the cherry blossom trees and red fields. The combat is like a dance with fluency and brutality. I loved the story of Jin as this honourable samurai who on this epic quest to save his homeland has to drop his morals and i really enjoyed the question it asks : do the means justify the ends?
The most addictive PS4 game of the last year. The combat system is just perfect and uncomplicated. Repatibility of side quests but that doesn't stop you from having fun
Лучшая игра! Гораздо лучше чему the last of us 2!!!! Хотябы потому что,там нет всяких трансгендеров

Отличная игра,особенно если любишь средневековую Японию,давно не во что так не залипал,советую!
18 hours into the game and currently in Act 2. Beautiful game!! Huge open world map. Countless hours of game play. Historical accuracy, no forced agendas/ boxes that need to be checked off in the name of 'representation' that is being see in many of games as of late (and in my opinion, ruining them) Love the fact we can customize our Samurai. A brilliant and perfectly-executed game that has a beautiful story told in an organic fashion. The voice acting (Japanese with English subtitles) is flawless, gives it an authentic feel - plus, in my opinion, it's a beautiful sounding language. Sucker Punch really outdid themselves on this game. Can't wait to see what they have for the future. Cons (I only have two minor issues): My first one is I wish the game was more graphic. You're using swords so I was expecting more than just an forearm to come off when you slice through an enemy; I would have expected all limbs and even heads to come off. Second one being the controls. Having to switch stances in the middle of fights, switching from half-bow to long bow, to the items you throw with your hand, etc. is a bit of a nuisance when in the middle of a fight, it's a learning curve.
No spoilers here you NEED to play this and enjoy the story for yourself! All I will say the game is stunning in every sense of the word. Environments are beautiful, the combat can be challenging but VERY fulfilling. The gameplay is really good, and the story in bloody cool. I love it through and through. Recommended. It may not be for everyone but it really is my cup if tea!
This game opens amazingly well. Im only a couple hours in but its safe to say this game is far more worth your money than last of us 2 could ever hope to be. Please buy this game instead of that **** pile of trash.
Definitely a huge surprise for me. I think one of the biggest things for me is how great the controls are, everything feels really refined and intuitive. I love how it doesn't aim for total realism like most open-world games do, because, at its core, Ghost of Tsushima is a phenomenal game.
A good open-world adventure game. Fantastic visuals, all that colorful contrast scenes are beautiful. In conjunction with a wide open world makes it feels alive and breathtaking. Fresh (or forgoten) view at combat mechanics with a quick paste encounters and long talky boss battles that convey the essence of old samurai movies. Though players could always use stealth to avoid fight with regular soldiers. Good representation of japan culture. The only negative side of game play is collectibles and loot grind in best traditions of assassins creed.

I would say 9.5, but here I give it a 10. There is no such thing as a perfect game, but this is one of the best in the genre. If you are into open-world, action RPGs - this is a must. And certainly the best samurai game I've played so far.

A pretty solid action game. The weak point has to be the game's main story. Its slowness prevents it from being interesting. I found the side quests being far more interesting. The combat is pretty good though I did seem to have issues with targeting when fighting multiple opponents at times. I had a habit of avoiding stealth because I sucked at it and just went in to try to kill my way through most of the time. Luckily, the different stances and styles they give you to counter certain enemy types made it all the more enjoyable. The open world is alright compared to most other games. There are certain times when it does feel empty, but over the course of the game, they add a few things here and there to try to make it more interesting.
I Literally made a metacritic account just to rate and review this game. Since release this past Friday I have been playing in the amazing world of Ghost of Tsusima religiously. I am just in the beginning of Act 2 and I have barely touched the story because the open world that they have created is so incredible.
Esta bastante bien, aunque tiene algunos bugs, nada que te impida disfrutar de este maravilloso título, creo que no hace mucha falta hablar de la jugabilidad, que es muy entretenida es lo que puedo decir y es emocionante descubrir las nuevas maneras de luchar (en ambos caminos, samurái y ¿shinobi?), este juego es algo que creo, mucha gente esperaba, algo exótico que, me sorprende no haya sido exprimido ya, como muchas otras culturas (no en "mal sentido") la historia no está mal, es algo muy entretenido aunque no te esperes lo mejor, es una lucha de honor, de la determinación sobre qué prioridad reina en la mente de Jin, su honor o la isla de Tsushima, por supuesto conoces la respuesta, aunque no será algo sencillo pisotear todo principio enseñado por su "ollue"xd


A beautiful game! Superb background score, superb graphics and one of the most anticipated theme. Kudos to dev team. +1 for black n white theme makes you look like watching movie of early 80's.
Amazing graphics Amazing story Amazing voice acting ( Japanese language is beautiful very passionate people I love the language more than my own native language English) I highly recommend this game 10/10 for me
All around great! Amazing combat, fun and memorable story, cool armor and weapons, and on top of that it’s the most beautiful looking game I’ve ever played. I couldn’t recommend it enough.

This game is beautiful, the combat is beautiful and the story is beautiful, I expected the game to just be good, but I was blown away. The only complaint is the AI is sucky while doing stealth, but it’s not the worst thing ever, I just love this game, easily in one of my favorite games of all time
Probably the best Samurai Simulator I've played that's fun and accessible. They got everything right, in my book. The tone, the gameplay, the graphics and style, heck, even the loading times are unbelievably fast.
This game was my first preorder in a long time. I have been burned so hard before. It has paid off more than I could have imagined. Amazing graphics, fluid gameplay. The fighting feels so good. The combat makes you think and adjust without turning into a button masher. Actually, if you try and button mash you are going to get dead real quick The sensory overload you get (playing with headphones) just immerses you completely. It took me no time at all to get used to the lack of a HUD. The storyline is just amazing, all the side quests and side stories each feel like their own movie. I am a 100% completion guy and none of it ever feels tedious. The only part I get a little nonplussed about is the camera angle can get a bit wonky sometimes, but Ghost is so quick and responsive you are able to get away and reset...which I have found most of the time you need to do to keep from being overwhelmed anyway. Overall, I am like 20 hours in and havnt completed act 1 yet. Like I said, a bit OCD on completing a game 100%........a huge 10/10 for me. I havnt rated a game that hight in a long time. Way to go sucker punch.

Que pedazo de juego, que bien cuidado esta. La ambientacion es de lo mejor y cabe destacar, ademas, el nivel de ciertas (la gran mayoria) misiones secundarias. Personalemente amo este juego.
It´s a good game, with a gorgeous open world to explore and great combat mechanisms. It´s totally worth the price tag ( and that says a lot, on these days) and i´ll only give it 8 because of some bugs and lots of flat characterizations. It doesn't ruin the game experience, but surely could be avoided

A beautiful, fantastically told story of honor, the horrors of war, and of characters having to do what they need to do to survive. The game graphically is breath taking, the voice acting for both English and Japanese is excellent - with a bonus of the One and only Zoro from One Piece voice actor Kazuya Nakai - Voicing The main character, Jin. The game controls extremely well with fluid and fun (and brutal) combat. This is honestly a game that just fully draws you in, with varied missions types and exploration that never feels dry or like a chore. This game is truly an experience and I cannot recommend it enough ! Graphics- 10 Sound design- 10 Music -10 Controls - 8 Story -9 Overall - 9.4
Finally a fun enjoyable game without all the preaching and politics, beautiful color's awesome character development. The wind direction is genius and gives the game almost a all screen experience that really sucks you into the amazing graphics. Side missions don't feel like like side missions at all. It's very easy to get immersed in this game the combat is so satisfying and gets better as the game goes on. Loving the character customization and I get sucked into the cut scenes which I didn't expect at all. This game is easily a 9/10 for me. Great job sucker punch clearly y'all have game that real gamers can enjoy without the nonsense that only divide people again great job


Game is great, its my first game from sucker punch I have heard about the infamous games but never played them. I have to say I love this game the graphics are stunning and the exploration is awesome. The only reason I don't give it a 10 is because the stealth is kinda bland I feel like they could have done better there but the combat makes you feel like an actual samurai which is so cool definitely a game that's worth all the money.
Masterpiece from start to finish it will be remembered for years to come, gameplay top notch visuals are amazing it felt like I was living in ancient japan.
I have never played a game this beautiful. I played RDR2 and that doesn't compare. The fighting is difficult (on hard) and somehow more satisying than Dark Souls. Exploration is fun and way more intriguing than Assassins Creed. I kept waiting to get bored but the game is such a well balanced mix of excitement and serenity that it just never happened. This game is original and it feels authentic. A must buy for any self respecting gamer.
Very aesthetically pleasing game, between the environment of japans nature and stark contrast of the mongol invasions havoc of the landscape is striking at times. The mechanics are fun and flashy, mabye a little too simple at times. Their is alot of different skins for your wardrobe and weapons. I spent hours and hours exploring everything in the first act before even doing the main story missions. Its a beautifully well done game, and easily game of the the year for ps4 exclusives.
I had to wait until the end of the PS4 era to be able to say I have an absolute favorite game : Ghost of Tsushima! I'm playing a little more than 20 hours now and this game always captivates me! Insanely great story, fantastically beautiful landscapes, a really very successful fighting system.... just a great game ...when I saw the first trailer in 2018 People....feudal Japan .. Samurai... hellooooo... I was thrilled....now....my expectations were more than just met, they would be exceeded! Absolute purchase recommendation

Глоток адекватности в мире безумной толерантности. Игра очень порадовала своей своей атмосферой, сюжетом хоть он явно и не шедевр, но понятный и цепляет лично меня в отличии от всеми облизаного TLOU2. Графика, геймплей, звуки на очень достойном уровне, несмотря на то что весьма вторичные
When you thought it couldn't get any better, you get The Ghost of Yarikawa. There's a lot of fun and interesting stuff to do and discover. Side quests are beautifully crafted mini stories. The game is gorgeous, I just wander around looking for things to do with no rush enjoying the landscape. I don't wanna finish it. Combat is satisfying, and challenging if you want it to. Different stances, ghost weapons and ways of tackling a battle. There are a few minor bugs here and there but they don't affect gameplay, minor silly things so far.


Amazing game. Last time a game blew me away this hard was the Witcher 3. Now, GoT isn't as expansive as the Witcher 3. However there's something about the game that stops me from putting the controller down. If we can play this on the PS5 right off the bat, trust me, this is going to be the first game I'm playing on that console.
Sucker Punch has One Punched this game's world and characters into the hearts of true gamers. Game of the Year 2020. I purchased the CE for $200 and was not disappointed. The story, visuals, and sound were near perfection. I'm not Japanese, but this game made me feel like badass samurai, I wish I was.
Great game, the story is spot on; combat system is fun, though the stealth system is a bit retarded; the best part of this game is the scenery and the atmosphere, definitely one of the best in the industry!! Also the classic Japanese samuraï cinematic is well recreated, remarkable work for a dev from US.
I would’ve rated it lower due to a few technical bugs but you can’t deny the absolute love and respect Sucker Punch took in creating this beautiful world. The visuals alone are enough to play this game. It needs more polish next around because let’s be real Ghost of Tsushima 2 on PS5 will be a thing
A part from the main story the side quests are as good as the main scenario. And the ending was a true masterpiece it doenst matter if u kill your uncle or spare him on both scenario the price to pay for your new ID(ghost) is too high. They really put well main characters that died not like that trash tlou2. Combat is smooth takes a time to master and to know how direction atack work. And please fix parkour its a bit wonky. And side note please play this game on hard other dificulty will be to easy and boss fights will be something memorable. I really hope they make a sequence on the other mongol invasion 10 years later. Lov the game. Ps. Fuk u Neil Trashman Tlou2 suck

WOW! Never thought that I'd see the day PS4 fanboys who love LoU2 (for some reason) declare war on GoT. Nevertheless, GoT still shines... I'm enjoying the game. After playing, beaten and revisiting Sekiro, Tenchu, Ninja Gaiden, and Onimusha... I needed another reason to sharpen the blade. I was pleasantly surprised playing GoT. This is a very good start to a franchise... opportunity? Keep those new 1st party IPs coming Sony and continue the franchise(s) (no more than 3 games though).

This game is great, I love the way it makes u feel like a Samurai. The combat is nice and deep, with lot's of upgrades and multiple stances with a reason to alternate between them. A fun challenge on the hardest difficulty. I love the different armors and customization. I love the Japanese dub with english subtitles. I love being in control of whether I will honor my opponent with a fair fight and the option to end their suffering, or if I will choose to fight fire with fire and be the dishonorable Ghost.
Sucker Punch outdid themselves on that one. Actual masterpiece. I give it a full 10 out of 10, as I like everything about this game. From the graphics, to the gameplay, to the story, this game deserves GOTY. Best game i've played in years!
Al fin un buen juego, un poco repetitivo en cuanto misiones pero cumple con su objetivo de ser divertido y para mi es suficiente, dan ganas de volver a jugarlo al rato de dejar de jugar y tiene grandes mecánicas, ni hablar de los excelentes gráficos, el photomode, y el combate, buen juego, no decepciona como otros juegos que fueron puro tráiler engañoso
Очень красивая игра, хороший сюжет, прям очень хорошо. Есть недочеты по некоторым диалогам, немного по боевой системе - но в целом отлично. Даже бовая система после DS вообще топ. Рекомендую.
Just remarkable, the ending was o my god, they gave us a choice of killing lord shimura and honestly i thought killing him with honor was better, and the gameplay is really amazing, i am for sure gonna achieve the platinum for this game, **** amazing game
This game is amazing so far, and I have already recommended it to 5 other people. The graphics are amazing, but it's more than just the graphics it's the artistic touch to everything. It just pulls you into the game, and just makes you want to look and stare at everything around you. The audio and sounds are amazing, so much so that they captivate you and the sound are lush and vibrant. I didn't think I would ever explain sounds in such a way. For instance, when you are standing in a meadow with the wind blowing, it feels like your are there and it is so calming. The same thing happens when your stand next to water streams, it just moves you with it's sounds. The gameplay is amazing and so fun, I don't generally get this hooked with a game outside of some Zelda games. It really does seem like it has something for everyone. The sword play really makes me feel like a samurai and sometimes like a ninja, and other times I feel like Zoro from One Piece lol. The only thing I could complain about with the gameplay is during certain event when you have a helper and they take your kills lol, they are way to good at their AI jobs lol. Not really a negative, just me saying I wanted that extra samurai slice lol. Honestly, I wish the AI was this helpful in other games I've played. I don't beat all of the games I play and for the ones I do, I don't replay them, well outside of some Zelda games. So if I beat the game and I replay it, it deserves a 10/10 in my eyes. But for now it is a 9/10. There are some minor issues with the camera angles when in fights, and with the navigation system, but again they are minor and you get use to them. Graphics 10/10 Sound 10/10 Swordplay 9/10 Gameplay 9/10 Overall 9/10

literally the most content rich game i have ever played in my 25 years of gaming! Despite its flaws, ghost of tsushima offers beautiful graphics that are nothing short of breath taking. As well as visceral and satisfying combat! This game makes you feel like a samurai. I highly recommend
The Samurai style of game that combines assassin's creed and witcher, meaningful plots and side-quests, stunning graphics and background music, well-designed moves action, really make the game stands out in the year of 2020, the best game so far in 2020.
A refershing experince asthonshing enviroment a fun combat system that keep always challniging through the gamplay Creative and simple but invotive i dea of exploring and very fun combat system.
Almost perfect. Aesthetically this is one of the most beautiful and immersive games that I've played. Jin is a great protagonist that draws you into the story. And the setting explores one of the fascinating turning points in history. Gameplay is fun, and not too difficult on normal. I did however run into some minor bugs that break you out of the immersion, that I hope get patched out soon.
Just when i tought 2020 was going to be erased from game industry this game trailer come out Ghost of tsushima is a open world, samurai based combat when you have to do anything to survive. What a game boy, the graphics are excelent The protagonist is a badass The story telling is well explored I tought this game would not find recognition I just never tought i was going to find a game like this and is pure evolution. For sure one of the games who deserve goty since sekiro
Best openworld experience since horizon zero dawn! Exploring The island of tsushima is a joy and you're bound to lose track of time and tell yourself ill just Explore 1 more location before I put down The controll and suddenly two hours has past. A must play game if you enjoy open world games
Almost 20+ hours in and it's a **** masterpiece, i'm loving everything from the game. The scenarios, the nature, the music, the combat, the story, everything is amazing. It's one of the few open world games where i want to continue playing for hours and hours. Beautiful game SuckerPunch. GOTY contender 100% sure!
The combat of this game is amazing, feels so refined and brutal, the finishers are pure adrenalin, i only wished there were dismemberments which is a must for a game of this type, story is kinda sad considering how it ends but its good, open world combined with combat style is pure fun by itself for me, go anywhere and cause mayhem Update: game just got even more amazing only 2 weeks in and they added a new difficulty mode. Second playthrough here we go!
Game of year 2020. Gem that nobody was expecting, not sure any recent RPG surpassed experience. Witcher 3 surely as game of decade but this is there is no better game so far..
The Ghost of Tsushima has got to be one of the best samurai game I have ever played alongside Sekiro. the game is beautiful and stunning when it comes to visuals and world design. The Ghost of Tsushima can be a bit glitchy and the combat can be easy to learn IF and ONLY IF the game is set on "Game Journalist difficulty " (easy). if the game is set on medium difficulty or hard, that's where the game combat mechanics shines. it is not 10/10 but it is definitely is 9 or 9.5
Visually pleasing and phenomenal attention to details, enjoyable combat and a heck of a story. Open world aspect is engaging and helps the player find locations without holding your hand too much. Overall a great experience to be had.
Gorgeous game, very fun exploration and beautiful map. Combat is amazing. Skill trees and the sheer amount of things there are to upgrade is expansive. You can tell much heart went into the making of this game. And best of all, there's no liberal sjw agenda in it!


This game is pure magic. I can feel the Japanese tradition, the history, the honor, the sadness, the revenge. The graphic is very nice (I love how they show the nature effects) such as the combact paths ( stealth and pk). I hope for it the best 2020 game!
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best games of the year by far. Breathtaking visuals with every area of the map offering a stunning vista. Tight and responsive controls that never feel sluggish. The combat is a mixture of Jedi Fallen Order, with an emphasis on strategic combat and parrying, and Batman Arkham, with the ability to quickly free flow from target to target. Every strike of the sword feels like it has weight and immense satisfaction. The music is absolutely beautiful with Japanese woodwind and string instruments. The open world is big but not too big, everywhere you go there is something to find, often resulting in upgrades for the protagonist.
Amazing game by suckerpunch. im no-lifing this for almost a week now. the stealth part of the game comes a little short but then again its totally up to you if you go in guns blazing or try to stealth-kill everyone. beatiful landscape, magnificent story. sidequests are enjoyable without repitition. the devs really digged into japanese culture and brought in a ton of stuff no one else would have thought of.

I purchased Ghost Of Tsushima Day One and got started playing A.S.A.P.. I purchased the physical copy of the game as a avid collector. I am in about 30 hours into the game, doing everything that is possible before completing the story. My thoughts on Sucker Punch's game is AWESOMELY FUN! I am totally enjoying this Samurai genre game. When it comes to Samurai and Ninja games, I'm in. This game is so beautiful! The story is pretty good, but the fighting mechanics is what makes the game. So much to do in this open world and keeps me wanting more and more. Thank you Sucker Punch for developing this game.
All in all it is just a fun game. The combat system is amazing though takes some time to get use to. The game has a tendency to force you to learn along the way. the mix of stealth and sword play fits together very well. the story is like playing an old samurai movie. A must play if you like stuff like that.
This game is fantastic. The story and combat evolve as you go through the acts and build with carefully considered layering. Visually I've not played anything on console this eye popping and alive. Shame on those so called professional reviewers who gave LOU2 a higher score. Bloody disgrace! Just look at what counts. The player score! Best game I've played since RE7 VR.

Juego del año y si me apuras, entra en mi Top 3 junto a Uncharted 4 y Horizon Zero Dawn... Me ha sorprendido gratamente lo bueno que es este juego, sobretodo por la narrativa y los combates, es realmente brutal.


I just want to start out by saying I do not think this is a perfect game but I would definitely rate it higher than a 9 if I could, maybe 9.5. Regardless, I found myself losing track of time whenever I played this game. I have not been so immersed in a game in a long time. I genuinely enjoyed it and loved riding on my horse viewing the beauty that this world had to offer. I fell in love with the combat since it had a similar parrying system like in the old assassins creed games. I love this system due to the fact that you can have some insane moments where you can just completely go on a tear and cut down your foes in style. From my experience, I will definitely be playing this game again on a harder difficulty once I have done every side quest in the game. Story-wise I really liked what they did in the ghost of Tsushima. What the Mongols do throughout the game is gruesome and horrific which built up my anger and hate towards them. I found myself connecting with people affected by this war and I was saddened by the personal experiences civilians went through in this game. The gameplay is enjoyable because there are so many ways that you can kill your opponents whether that is stealthy or just straight-up fighting or shooting down your enemies. The graphics in this game are breathtaking. I love the art style in this game and love the sound of the guiding winds and how realistically the environment reacts to the wind. I love that you are able to go through this entire journey through the shoes of a samurai and experience the gruesome times that were brought by the Mongolian invasion.
I like the game looks good only when you cut someone with a sword there isnt a mark of the cut or torn cloth its just blood?? not so much detail on a game where cutting is the most you do.
Ghost of Tsushima is an absolute blast. It actually really surprised me with not only the graphics but especially the engaging missions, stunning soundtrack and excellent presentation in menu's and gameplay. You start to wonder why it took so long to finally get a decent samurai game but after playing the game it was definitely worth the wait. Highly recommended!
Great game reminds me of a Japanese assassins creed game with more rewarding combat amazing story that gose through the invasion of japan from Genghis Khan grand son

Where do I begin.. suckerpunch have reached legendary status with ghost tsushima. I havent been this immersed in a virtual world since red dead redemption 2 and I haven't experienced tone like this since grand theft auto 4. The combat is visceral and satisfying, the world is beautiful and feels lived in. The soundtrack and sound design are top notch and the story not only stays true to Japanese culture but sticks to the tine perfectly. Highly recommended to anyone who loves story driven ,immersive ipen world gaming
Quite a sight for sore eyes after playing TLOU2 ... This is what video games are supposed to be... Fun, exiting, engaging and challenging. Just full on entertainment!
It is an enjoyable game, not a masterpiece but not even crap It's nice to see that users do positive review bombing, just to go against tlou2. good failed users
the amount of options in terms of experiencing the game shows their dedication to me. SP really outdone themselves. Currently playing in colour with Japanese language and English subtitles. Planning on playing it again in Black and White after. Also for those who bought the game and which to spend 10-20 mins taking in the views and sceneries: I recommend the Golden Summit shrine. Gosh darn-it Sucker Punch artists! You guys are awesome! Does it have it's flaws? Yeh, I'm still on the wall (pun intended) about the movement mechanics while climbing cliffs. I found an interesting sequence in the enemy npc (that could be fixed): Once they call for reinforcements, going to blow their horns, you can run up to the enemy without them noticing you. From a programming perspective, this means once the ai runs a certain part of the code on the behavior of the enemy npc, it does not perform the seek/seeing activity part of the code anymore. Other than that, I have NOTHING to complain about thus far.
Es un juego que mezcla perfectamente lo que es la historia estilo oriental y el ambiente, el motoro grafico utilizado a nivel visual es bastante potente, se puede ver el movimiento de hasta las mas minimas plantas y arboles, pero si nos fijamos en pequeñas cosas como la caminata del personaje, podemos notar la falta de contacto del pie con el piso, por ejemplo, a nivel de cinematicas, tienen buen desarrollo, pero las tomas de camaras, no nos permite comprender el foco al cual queremos, sino que nos especifica mas el ambiente que la misma trama que ocurre, ademas de lipsync, o sincronizado de labios del audio con la expresion y labios de los personajes no esta tan marcada, por lo que vemos solo expresiones ligeras, a nivel de historia, uno se complementa y une con el personaje y finalmente la musica, un arte que mezcla el uso de instrumentos tradicionales asiaticos con los contemporaneos, me traer recuerdos a sagas como Far Cry o Assasins Creeds, un buen juego si eres amante del mundo oriental y el paso más alla del solo luchar, sino la historia.

This game is phenomenal. By far the best game I have played in a long time. The only game that MIGHT give it some competition is cyberpunk, but we will see.
This game is beautiful, combat is amazing and so diverse you dont get tired of it, with a lot of customization, and legendary armor/abilities to acquire and feel like a complete badass. Ive taken more pictures in this game than in real life lmao. Unlike other games that try to look as realistic as possible, GOS looks almost like a beautiful painting everywhere you go, its just gorgeous. The game isnt perfect with some repetitive mission structures, a few bugs here and there (although not game breaking or too bad at all) and some camera issues when fighting in close quarters with no lock on, but you can get over those easily bc everything else is great. For 60 bucks with no BS and micro transactions an easy 9.5 rounded to a 10 from me.
I feel like most open world games these days get too massive and bloated by boring content, but that's not the case with Ghost of Tsushima sure there's less interesting stuff but you're not forced to do it to progress the game further. overall most of the game systems are nothing special but they're not terrible with combat being the highlight of the game-play making you feel like you truly are a master samurai or ninja with the plethora of weapons at your disposal. So far this is my game of the year.
It is just what I was looking forward to and more! It's like a combination of Assassins Creed, some Witcher, and Sekiro. It it the most fun I had in a game since GTA 5 or Witcher 3. 5/5
Such a breath of fresh air to see a new AAA title not stuffed with politics. An ambitious, artistic accomplishment of gaming. This is something that everyone should experience. Minimal HUD, fluid and fast paced combat, breathtaking open world full of lush environments, a fully fledged photo mode and much more. I’m not one for spoilers but suffice it to say Sucker Punch knocked this one out of the park! 10!
Whilst this game isn’t perfect, it earns a perfect score from me thanks to its presentation and for somehow making a jaded gamer like me enjoy an open world again! Even as someone who loves Sekiro, there’s still a learning curve for me with the stances complimenting each enemy type! I think I’ll be platinuming this game very soon
An incredibly realized world, GHOST OF TSUSHIMA is breathtaking in its presentation and incredibly fun in its game play. While the opening is a little tepid, especially after the hype, when the world opens up after the first couple hours, GHOST begins to take on a life of its own. Instead of the map being littered with question marks and way points, the story and your exploration opens up new places to go. And each little quest and story is delicately drawn, you immediately are drawn in. Sucker Punch lovingly recreates 13th century Japan. You can tell there was a lot of thoughtful consideration taken from the recreation of architecture to how the story is told through the world itself. Speaking of this, many open world games get this wrong. Sucker Punch has chosen to craft its game world to TELL the story - showing the aftermath of the Mongol invasion through the charred landscape and villages. The stylized graphics are breathtaking as the color choices invoke mood time and again. The added Kurosawa mode allows you to imagine yourself in THE SEVEN SAMURAI or any number of 50s and 60s classics by the Japanese director. A nice touch, but as others have said, you're depriving yourself of the magnificent color choices if you play through in that mode. As far as the combat, it's not a SOULS-type game, but close to Arkham-style, which is great because there are so many upgrade options available to make combat interesting and awesome to watch and take part it in. The stealth, "ghost" option is nice, too, but is pretty standard AC-style fare. What this game does is really push forward the notion of what open world games can do. Especially in how the map is revealed to the player, how way points are handled (the wind shows you the way), and how even the smallest side quests are handled with care to push the main story forward. Also, one doesn't have to play all side quests - this is not an RPG. I'm not really one to care too much for a game's story, but in this case, it's well done. It might not be as great as some of the inspiration it takes from (see: Kurosawa's films), but it is a loving homage to that era and genre of Japanese film. The highlights of GHOST are the beautiful world, fun combat, and the exploration, which takes notes from Nintendo's BREATH OF THE WILD. After fifteen hours, I can say, this game is top-tier, and Sony and Sucker Punch can be proud to end the PS4 era on such a high note.
This is the first game I've ever cared enough about to review....it is utterly phenomenal! I wont say anything to spoil it but imho it is a must play and should be game of the year. Tysm suckerpunch....in the year filled with so many unfinished, unpolished, and just mediocre games you guys have gone above and beyond in every way possible. Tysm again. Love you guys!

This game from the start is so fun to play. The graphics and scenery are beautiful. Im a few hours in the campaign but there is so much to do that i get side track with side missions. I love this game.
Visually amazing would be 10 but merchant on game don't really sell much.think it could be alot more brutal in combat but still very much enjoyed it one off best games out on ps4.

Its an amazing game Everything is amazing The graphics The combat The skill level The story The details The voice acting especially the japanese actors
Плюсы: Атмосфера Хорошая проработка открытого мира Сюжет Квесты Боевка Персонажи Прокачка Не уровней как в АС Минусы: ИИ немного туповат


The game look amazing and beautiful. i really enjoy game set in history, i don't see lot of them set back in age of the Samurai. it good recommended for anyone to try it out and have good time for it. p.s the critic can go **** themselves.
Most people gave this game a 10 because of graphics, but graphics alone don’t make the game, Ghost of Tsushima is Assassins Creed Odyssey set in Japan with mildly better graphics, nothing ground breaking here.
I literally made an account to review this game. This game does not deserve an 83, that is an insult. This game was the perfect way to end of ps4 exclusives. Sucker punch promised us a great game, and they didn’t disappoint whatsoever. The combat in this game is flawless, it’s actually complex and a lot of thought has to go into it, it requires skill. It’s not just button mashing, you will not be good at combat the first time you try it, it will take a while and that’s what I love about it, you can’t keep your eye away from the screen during combat because Jin is just human, this guy can’t take much hits. Only problem with combat would be the camera angle, sometimes you can’t see yourself or your enemy. But other than that it’s fantastic. The story of this game is nothing special but that’s not a bad thing. The story is great, it works very well, it is very well paced and very well written and I was really interested in the characters and what would happen next. The story isn’t that long, you could probably finish it in 2 days if you only focused on it, but that’s not a bad thing either. Stealth in ghost of tsushima is amazing, not because it just feels super satisfying, but because you have a dozen options of approaches when it comes to stealth, there are so many approaches in stealth, you can climb up to rooftops, crawl under building, go through broken windows, take an enemy out from the other side of the door and bring him in with Your katana. There is so much variation, it never gets boring. This game really shines in the side actives and the world. The world is absolutely gorgeous and I have never seen anything like it before. I really took my time when it came to exploring the world because I wanted to appreciate it. Sucker punch put an insane amount of effort into creating this world and I cannot praise them enough. Now let’s talk about side quests/activities. There are A LOT of side quests, and when I say a lot, I mean a lot, completing all the side objectives there is in the game will probably take longer than completing the story from the looks of it. There are a lot of different side quests and all of them are insanely fun. Finding the shrines is some of the most fun I’ve ever had in this game because of the amazing parkour that you have to do to get there, and there are a lot of shrines. These shrines also reward you with charms which you can put on your katana for extra benefits. Hot springs are places where Jin relaxes to reflect on 1 of 2 things that you get to pick, once you’re done with that it gives you a little increase to your maximum health, there is literally character development in one of the most simple things in the game. Cutting down bamboo is surprisingly really fun and can be challenging at times. You have to press a certain combination of buttons to complete it in a very short period of time but completing them will give you extra resolve. Now, mongol camps. I know a lot of people will think that they’re boring, but no. I don’t do the mongol camps because it’s on my map, I do them because they are a ton of fun, I have so much fun doing them and I just keep doing more. I never ignore any fights. They’re that fun. Side missions in this game are a lot and all of them mean something, they’re not just random missions, they reward you and they all have a backstory to them that’ll keep you interested. Upgradability in this game might be a bit overwhelming at first because there’s so much to upgrade like: your armor, your katana, your tanto, your bow, your throwables and then you also have the skill tree(s), there are multiple skill trees, ones for mythic tales which give you very powerful special abilities by completing a certain mission. There is the deflection skill tree which gives you skills for deflection. Evasion, an individual skill tree for all 4 stances, An individual skill tree for all your throwables, the ghost abilities skill tree, and the exploration skill tree. And the only other thing that kind of bothered me (this is very nit picky by the way) was there were too many cuts/black screens. The game loads faster than any game I’ve played recently too, you’ll barely be able to read the tips, it’s that fast. And that’s about it for this review. If you’re on the fence for this game, please do yourself a huge favour and buy it.

Buy this game! Put this game into your collection. This is a MUST BUY game. Ghost of Tsushima is FUN and ENJOYABLE, the story is engaging, gameplay is a LOTTA FUN, the graphics are gorgeous. The open world is really beautiful and it's worth the exploration. The main character is LIKEABLE. Well Done to the developer Sucker Punch! Thank you for making this game, this is what every gamers need right now after the disappointing politically-influenced game of The Last of SJW Part 2.
This game is fun. The story is well written. The dialog is good. The combat is fun and it has a good learning curve. It's can be hard at times but it is fair. The progression works really well. The graphics are excellent. The lighting Is even better and the music sets the atmosphere mood well. There are a couple graphical inconsistencies like how light reflects off some surfaces but overall this game is excellent. Plus best of all it dousnt try to shoehorn todays politics into a historical setting of which it dousnt belong


The game is fun and interesting! pro: great combat system, fluent actions, interesting stories and side missions; con: the collection systems seems tedious to me, especially when you do it for trophies. To conclude, I like it!

Excellent game! Better than I was expecting. The combat is probably the best 3rd person sword play I've played, ever! Graphics are a really good capture of Japan. Haven't finished yet but am looking forward to the 2nd one already.

The game is really good overall. It can give a tough competition to The Last of Us and Cyberpunk 2077 for GOTY. The graphics are top-notch, combat is amazing, and the story is really good. The reason why I didn't give the game a 10 is because there are some rough edges that could have been fixed. For example, when characters are engaged in a dialogue, the lip animation does not match with the dialogues for both English and Japanese. It would have been really good if they did so. Additionally, there were portions of the game that faced glitches thus starting the scene again. Other than these 2 thorns, the game is really well made and I am loving it.
The year is 1274. Samurai warriors are the legendary defenders of Japan -- until the fearsome Mongol Empire invades the island of Tsushima, wreaking havoc and conquering the local population. As one of the last surviving samurai, you rise from the ashes to fight back. But, honorable tactics won't lead you to victory. You must move beyond your samurai traditions to forge a new way of fighting -- the way of the Ghost -- as you wage an unconventional war for the freedom of Japan
小缺點有一些，但不影響遊戲進行樂趣， 看得出官方為了避免玩家挫折、作業感， 設計了很多方便的設定， 畫面風景優美， 更重要的是，總監對玩家很Nice
This game although in places isn’t always perfect, the world this game sets is astonishing. It gives me scenic vibes of RD2 and at times feels as good as Last of us Part 2, Graphically. The combat is extremely fun and the story gives classic Samurai feels. I love this MF game.
Ghost of Tsushima makes assassins creed origin and odyssey feel dated. And I really enjoyed those games. Sucker Punch created a stunning, living world. Graphics are insane, technology is smooth with some incredibly fast teleportation and gameplay mechanics is well though with the wind showing you the way. Yes it does not reinvent the open world genre but definitely push the envelope. The story is interesting and characters are compelling. Every time I take the controller I feel like I going back to a world, not a game. A true masterpiece. Thank you Sucker Punch. Ps: I feel bad for those reviews giving this game a low score. How is it possible not the charmed by the elegance of this game. Advice: I recommend playing with Japanese audio and crank the difficulty to hard as soon as you feel powerful enough.
The game is large, fun, and addictive. The story is simple, but it does the trick. It's a bit repetitive at times, but the depth in the combat far makes up for that. There's some very interesting bugs in the game, but nothing game breaking or even annoying..something that I stopped and just laughed at. The land is beautiful. I truly feel immersed in a samurai story

Ghosts of Tsushima is a beautiful and wonderful open world experience with tons of content. The story is interesting and engaging. I would recommend this game to anyone who is a fan of open world games like skyrim, the witcher 3, and assassins creed tho it is NOT an assassins creed clone . This game does alot of good things and almost never falls flat.. definitely a buy in my opinion
I created an account to give this game my review. Ghost of Tsushima is extremely fun, allowing players to experience the fantasy of being a samurai. Definitely worth checking out.

Composing haiku, reflecting while soaking in hot springs, playing the flute to change the weather, honoring shrines, birds, foxes and the wind leading you to interesting locations, satisfying combat, touching stories, freeing your gorgeous island from a Mongol invasion. It's absolutely intoxicating and hard to put down.
While I've yet to finish the story I have put in so many hours into this game. In giving it a 9 though I'd say more accurately it's a 9.5 Exploration and traversal while nothing new feel fresh and exciting. Some clunky spots, such as float sliding down rocks or hovering above certain obstacles. That said it didn't impact my enjoyment even though it does get me killed on occasion. On the plus side loading is fast and there is usually very little in the way as far as punishment for death. My biggest complaint would be the camera mid combat. It stays static unless you manually rotate it. While that's not a huge problem most of the time I have to say on more than one occasion the screen was blocked by a pillar, banner even a cart. Again not a huge issue but mild annoyance. As I stated I have yet to finish the story ( a little over half way) but from what I've seen its really enjoyable the characters are wonderful and I could go deeper into that but im tried so that's all you get

Ghost of Tsushima takes the best elements of cherished games like Assassin's Creed and Far Cry and combines them into a magnificently-well written story. I am practically 20 hours in the game and have barely just begun the second main story arc (out of 3). This is frankly the first open world game I've ever played where I am WILLINGLY exploring every inch of the island and playing all the side quests BEFORE the main story missions. The game does not cease to surprise me with new abilities and tools to use against new and adaptive foes, throughout the whole game. It feels as though the possibilities are truly endless. This game honestly revived gaming for me and took me back to a time where games were designed and meant to be FUN - a focus that has recently perplexingly become abandoned. 2020 GOTY.
Please give this game a try, beautiful graphics plenty of quest and a solid story, combat is solid, do not believe the negative reviews this game is huge and I know I will sink at least 60 hours or more into it, this game is absolutely worth 60 dollars you can see it in the graphics, and the way the game was though out really well 9/10 from me, I hope they make a sequel for this game Amazing ! This game will showcase the power of the ps4 beautiful



Amazing, Breathtaking this is the game of the year! It really stays true to the Japanese culture and has beautiful landscapes. The best looking game I have seen on the playstation 4 system
La direction artistique est sublime, un excellent système de combat, un très bon scénario, ce jeux est redoutable adversaire pour The Last Of Us Part II au GOTY
This is easy one of the best games I’ve ever played! from the Graphics, the fighting, the characters, the story and the sheer emotion it puts you through. I would rate this game higher if I could and will be shocked if it does not win game of the year! Sucker Punch have hit a home run with this game! Amazing job guys absolutely amazing!

Лучшая игра в открытом мире за последние лет 5. Очень красивый визуал, отлично подан сюжет, просто шикарно передан дух Японии. Проблемы чести, верности, долга, мести поданы здесь на высоте и представлены в виде отличного, пусть и простого, но здорово поданного сюжета Это совсем не AC, как может показаться вначале. Здесь нет дебильного гринда, нет скучных одинаковых лагерей и ваншотного билда. Обязательно играть только в японской озвучке для полного погружения!



It’s the best open world game I have ever played till date. Stunning environment, great lighting, great characters, etc. I have played sucker punch games before but this game was better than infamous and sly cooper IPs. It has some minor flaws but it’s their new IP so I knew there would some minor flaws. The combat was excellent and fluid, it can be hard in first 2 hours but as you unlock skills and stances it gets better. Overall this game is almost a masterpiece



This is the perfect game to end ps4 era with. Fantastic from start to finish. Sucker Punch made the infamous series which to this date is my favourite superhero games of all time. I was really surprised that they didn't go for another but like Guerrilla Games did with HZD, they managed to outdo the game series that they are known for in every way possible. First of all, story wise : classic revenge plot done perfectly well. No doubt it is nothing ground breaking in this aspect but this is the tale you want to hear. Classic, simple : good old vengeance. And I would say it felt really really amazing to do the main quests. But there is a reason why I think this game is almost perfect in every other way. First : Graphics are amazing. The world is gorgeous and the setting is just amazing. When it rains and you are riding your horse through the beautiful forests of Tsushima, you can almost smell the earthy scent emanating from the ground. But well visuals are visuals, they add to the experience, so the gameplay : this is where the game shines. It might be the most satisfying game I have played this generation. The sword, the combat : everything is perfect. This is what Assassin's creed should be whenever they decide to bring the series to Japan. The combat is responsive and the system of choosing between stealth and killing by stabbing people in "not so samurai ways" (makes sense in the story) or challenging the people to a stand off and honourably having a well crafted fighting sequence is upto you and both are done perfectly well. Finally, the place which is usually where a lot of open world games fall apart : side quests, side missions, exploration and collectibles. And I am glad that the level of quality of these matches that of the main campaign, graphics and combat and makes the game feel extremely immersive. There are three types of quests mainly. Main, Side and Mythic. And while main is obviously the important one, the other two are amazingly well done. It never feels like you are doing chores to just get to 100%. You simply do them because you just want more and more. Exploring the world to find the relaxing baths, the shrines, following the foxed and birds, finding things and protecting people: all feel natural and are something you would do without even thinking about it. Usually when going for 100% in even the best of games, some tasks are just too repetitive (I feel this way about even one of my favourite games of all time : red dead 2 and even about the easy to 100% Spiderman ps4): but in this it doesn't. Because, the combat is so well done that you keep wanting to fight more enemies. One side note: the way this game handles the map is amazing. If you have yet to try it, you will see what I mean when you do and yes, ofc, buy this. No doubt worth it. Overall, easily one of the best games of this generation with an amazingly well done campaign, fun side tasks, beautiful graphics, great presentation, awesome combat and a really well crafted open world and plus, a really nice way to handle tracking quests, maps and all with minimal intrusion to the experience : this for me so far is GOTY 2020.
If you like samurai or japanese culture, this is your game, a beautiful open world with an epic battle system (im playing on hard), still not finish the game, but i love it already. Probably my fav ps4 game right now.
Ghost of Tsushima is my favourite open world game of this generation. The art style and graphics are simply gorgeous, combat and stealth feel great and it has an interesting blend of side-quests, mythic tales and main story. The combat is deep and has a slight learning curve I found myself dying a fair bit in the early stages, but as you progress and unlock more abilities you're able to dominate your enemies. The standoff mechanic alone is really satisfying. Stealth gameplay is solid and the executions look and feel great, particularly the chain assassinations The enemy AI could be slightly better but it doesn't detract from the overall experience. If you like open world games you will love this. My 2 favourite open world games before this were Witcher 3 and Horizon Zero Dawn. And in my personal opinion this surpasses both of them, it's an absolute must buy. Sucker Punch have knocked it out of the park with this one.
Вперёд, братья, не дадим фемкам, геям и прочим долбанутым фанатам TLOU2 слить рейтинг этой игры!
Este juego es simplemente increible graficos, ambientación, jugabilidad, sonido todos los apartados son muy sobresalientes, el mejor juego de ambientación samurai hasta la fecha, la inmersión que te da es increible la verdad me la estoy pasando increíble con este juego. Definitivamente merece el GOTY seria un premio justo al trabajo que ha realizado el estudio de desarrollo de este juego.

Solid game, the combat is the star of the show. The world is beautiful but can feel a little empty after awhile. Story is pretty good so far though sometimes comes off a little too serious. A Love letter to Kurosawa through and through.
Ghosts of Tsushima had to be given some time for it to click but once it did, I was hooked. Games like these I don't typically find "addictive" but I love how the game always seems to be unlocking or on your way to unlocking something really cool. The combat is brutal and just has some nice touches that make it overall a very fun game to play. It has so many neat little features like being able to pick certain dialogue branches at times and bow or give thanks in other ways. It's no surprise that Sucker Punch has surpassed my expectations once again.

這是基於元日戰爭為背景的遊戲 但由於元日戰爭只有很少文獻記載 遊戲裡大部分內容/人物都是虛構的 遊戲的環境氛圍是神作的級別, 隨便拍都能拿來當桌布 遊戲性是一般3A大作的等級 沒有甚麼突出的地方 劇情方面就是爽片 沒甚麼突出 但玩起來非常暢快 製作團隊可以在簡短的支線中進行深刻的人物描寫 這點非常值得欣賞

This game is amazing, the characters have depth, optimization is amazing, I haven't run into one technical error or glitch, gameplay is fun and challenging, visuals are stunning and beautiful, and the story is almost perfect.This game in my opinion is what you would call a perfect game, now no game will ever be a 10/10 but this is as close as it gets in my book the devs at sucker punch hit it out of the park with this. And for all the people on social media crying about some stupid nonsensical crap, they need to shut up and be ignored because they are just looking for something to latch on to and drag down into the crap filled world they inhabit, most of these people don't know how to live life without looking for attention and feel like they rid the world of some invisible evil, but in reality they are worthless people that shouldn't have a tongue or a way to voice their thoughts cause it doesn't help or bring anything good Into the world. Well I'm done ranting about stupid people, so wrap up is this game is amazing buy it and ignore stupid people that **** out of their mouths. Have a good one sorry this is so long.
This game is amazing. First of all it is pure eye candy. No it is not the best graphics nor the best facial animations out there yet the world around you the fighting animations and the weather effects are simply stunning. Side quests feel meaningful. These are very rarely the simple go fetch quests but rather tie into the story itself of what is going on the island. The main story is interesting much like the main character Jin. I do not intent to go into spoilers but Jin to me was interesting to play with. There are some very cool game mechanics as there is no HUD in this game. So the wind guides you to the locations you marked or the next quest, little golden birds show you secret spots on the map (such as bamboo holders, quest givers, hot baths, haiku spots) and foxes guide you to shrines that you can honor for rewards. Fighting feels intens and very rewarding when you pull off chain kill streaks and badass combo's. At first the sheer amount of stances, combo options and secondary weapon options may seem overwhelming however i found that it quickly becomes very easy to use and as required change it during combat. The attention for detail is insane. lastly there is no shop, loot boxes no cosmetic packs you can buy. All is truly in the game and can be obtained by playing the game. This game really let me feel like a 13th century samurai. It is well worth the money.
This is my favorite game this year. They historical and philosophical references are everywhere and it’s great. The graphics are great and the gameplay is fantastic. I don’t normally rate a game so high but it feels like they did everything right and it’s been awhile since I enjoyed a game this much. It has a nice level up system and good difficulty settings. I played it under the samurai Cinematic which was Japanese audio with English subtitles. the next Play through I’m planing English to hear how those voice actors sound.playing this game you really get into the feel of a samurai movie. You can take on a darker tone as you assassinate people but that’s your choice. I honestly enjoyed fighting people out in the open. Overall this is a very entertaining game.

Cudo ciężko opisać ta grę w inny sposób świetnie napisane postacie świat prześliczny historia jest kozacka podczas gry czujesz się jakbyś oglądał bardzo dobry film o samurajach brak minimapy oraz znikomy interfejs dodaje tej gry jeszxe więcej klimatu Polecam gorąco każdemu kto choć trochę lubi klimat japoński
The best Samurai game I’ve ever played hands down! Sucker punch knocked it out the park the combat in this game is fun as hell making you feel like a Badass. combat is deep and rewarding skill trees upgrades and different combat stances are very satisfying to pull off. The graphics are the best on ps4 beautiful meadows and landscapes in full bright colors. Story is like a very good samurai flick the music is also very good. This game is a masterpiece and a love letter to Samurai fans !!
An absolute masterpiece of a game. I got completely lost in this world. The colors are super aesthetic. The combat style is one of a kind. The story is fascinating. It is a must play for everyone who is a fan of these style of games. In my opinion, it is the best exclusive after God of War.


I haven’t quite finished the main quest line yet but I’m about 2/3rds of the way through and I thought I would write this review while waiting for my PS4 controller to charge. I have been playing this game almost non-stop since its release. If there’s one word that could sum up this game it’s fun. It’s much more than that, but I haven’t had this much fun with a game for a long time. Ostensibly this appears to be an Assassins Creed with a Samurai theme with familiar open world tropes, but when its executed this well it is so much better than that. The graphics are absolutely gorgeous – I’ve used the photo mode in this game more than all other games I’ve played put together. The art design and the vivid colours are at times breathtaking. The map isn’t peppered with icons everywhere that usually signify cookie cutter side missions that are needed to level up, instead they are kept to a minimum as exploration is greatly encouraged instead of merely going from point A-B. Side missions are as much fun and quality as the main quest and they are varied and interesting - much time and effort has been put into both. There are no clumsy intrusive lines showing you where to go instead you follow the wind, foxes or certain birds which show you the way to missions, or places of interest. A simple but brilliantly effective idea of maintaining immersion. Every point of interest has a purpose, whether it’s to increase health or increase charms. But it’s the combat where this game really excels. It can be as simple or as complex as you wish. With four different sword techniques that you can change mid combat at will, and with multiple move sets per technique, it makes for some impressive and visceral combat. Bandit camps are no longer the tedious level up method deployed in AC games instead, because of the glorious combat, they become something to look forward to. The game does have a few minor quibbles; there are probably more bugs than there should be – though I’ve not encountered any game breaking ones, and the camera needs a lock on, too many times it got caught up behind a bush or obstacle meaning you can’t see, sometimes meaning you lose the fight. But overall this game is absolutely superb and the more I play the better it gets as it reveals more of itself. Without question, so far this is my game of the year...by some distance.
The game is straight up incredible! The world is unlike anything I’ve ever seen before in a Videogame and the photo mode fits perfectly! The combat is challenging but fair, and is a lot of fun! I really like the customization options for Jin (the main character) and I could easily spend a whole day playing without getting bored at all

Ghost of Tsushima is probably one of the most fun games I have played this year, it has a great atmosphere and I was repeatedly thinking about how cool the world was. You feel like a complete badass throughout the game, whether you are an honorable samarai or a brutal ghost. Exploring the island and completing its challenges and side quests doesn't feel like you're just checking of boxes to get that platinum trophy and you are often rewarded well for completing them. I really enjoyed the story and the continuous reminder that you are supposed to fight with honor and i couldn't help but feel bad whenever I took out a camp as the ghost. My opinion on the story may be influenced by the fact that I just have a natural interest in the history of the Mongol empire and ancient Japan but i can definitely see many people enjoying it even if they are not interested in the history. I am not an anime fan so getting a game based in Japan that wasnt just a bunch of magic and invincible characters but was actually a very grounded and brutal experience was a breath of fresh air. If you weren't sure on whether or not to buy this game, take my word for it, you will most likely enjoy it.
Amazing game, what LOU2 couldn't do for me is accomplished here. I'm a big fan of the Nioh series and really liked Sekiro. The combat is different and i love it for it, while it's a little repetitive at times, i like that i can choose my approaches. oh yeah and it's 100% the most graphically beautiful game ive seen this year.
非常棒的游戏，非常推荐非常棒的游戏，非常推荐非常棒的游戏，非常推荐非常棒的游戏，非常推荐，非常棒的游戏，非常推荐非常棒的游戏，非常推荐，非常棒的游戏，非常推荐非常棒的游戏，非常推荐
That's second game after Witcher 3 where im spending time literally from dusk till dawn. It's not revolutornary in any way but imagine simple but tasty meal from your favourite ingredients. This game fully meets my expectations and i would really have to force myself to point out its downsides.
What a game! This is personally for me the best game I have ever played on the ps4! Story is very immersive and mature! The world is so alive that it almost feels like a spiritual journey to walk through! Combat is the most satisfying feature in the whole game! Best ever! 10/10! Game of the year!


The environments are amazing, exploration is just great, the combat is fluid and the story and characters are well written, a strong contender for GOTY
this is a masterpiece. 10 out of 10. Most beautifull ps4 game in terms of artwork and scenery. Stunnin soundtrack RPG ish in a open world beautifully crafted. DO not miss this game. it is a solid game . it is great. Only persona 5 can compete in terms of artwork. Not even last of us 2 or horizon can.


Amazing Graphics, good gameplay, amazing scenery and environments. SOLID horse handling, and movement (Probably one of the best out there, without janky controls, and running into invisible walls). Combat is pretty good, however gets kind of stale late game. The sneaking portion of the game is mediocre and easy, especially if you're using the bow to one shot. There are a plethora of minor glitches (which make it funny, but not game/story breaking) usually with models freaking out, you getting stuck in between something, floating seagulls. There's only one real comic relief character in the game, which I would have wanted to have more screen time. A lot of quests, and exploring, in which each area and biome is unique. One feature I like is the photo mode, which has a lot of options. Theres this weird thing with the Waves SFX, and makes it sounds low quality. Anyways, Ghost of Tsushima is one of the better games this year.

Поставил 10 только изза даунов-фанатиков ТЛОУ 2, которые гасят эту игру. Что вы сравниваете? Токсичное сообщество. Хотите сравнение? ТЛОУ 2 полная шляпа в сравнении с первой частью. Так вот. О Цусиме. Игра на 8. Есть недочеты, но атмосфера сглаживает углы.

Да, игра не идеальна, все механики ассасиновские, но это пример того как по разному можно сделать две игры с одинаковыми механиками (возможно даже и на одном движке). Эта в отличии от ассасинов в разы атмосферней и в нее хочется возвращаться. Но 5 тысяч она не стоит.
Ghost of Tsushima is hands down one of the best games I have had the pleasure of experiencing. From the introductory battle sequence to the end I would not like to spoil for anyone, it was something to be experienced. The graphical quality of this game is breathtaking, and at times I was left speechless by how beautiful the game looks. Definitely buy this one!
There is no gays and **** the best game 2020 lol. I am coolest man in the world, because I hate LGBTQJnfkfkdk+
This game is one of the amazing games that Sucker Punch Productions made for gamers. It's a very long time that I can enjoy a game like this since Assassin's Creed III.

Ghost of Tsushima is a fun game to play, it has interesting characters and overall fun gameplay. and I do recommend playing it at least once, especially if you like Japanese culture. It simulates those times really well and it feels authentic, The story itself is okay but it's a bit too easy to see what is going to happen. And this game is a linear experience with only one ending. Some of you might think I have rated this game too low, But, as many things this game does right it also does things wrong. There are too few diversions from combat and those that are there get boring fast. And the rewards too low. plus the fact that there are much better open-world games out there. But I do recommend getting this game, as it's an experience
Absolutely GORGEOUS. It's a hybrid mix of Fallen Order, Uncharted, Tomb Raider, Assassin's Creed, and Sekiro. The level of detail and care that went into the world design is flawless, and the combat system feels rewarding and challenging. I recommend playing the game on Hard though, to truly get the best experience out of the gameplay.
i have Played 15 hours and barely scratched the surface,never rated a game before but made an account just for this game. I have played all sorts of open world games from RDR,AC,Witcher 3,Fallout,Spider-Man,gta to elder scrolls and I’m happy to say that this is the best and most polished open world game I’ve played to date,playing on the pro. Everything is done to the highest quality from story,visuals,combat,world design,art design,music.Animation could have been a little better but all in all 10/10. The world and combat are the stars of the game. Having a blast
This is more than just a game. This is an experience, a quest, a very spiritual one. It speaks to your very being. The sceneries, the gameplay, the story, the culture, it takes time to take it all in and for a very good reason. There are moments when I got chills running all over my body, jumping away from the couch, wavering my arms in the air like I was truly 'in' the battlefield. Now suckerpunch has earned a soft spot in my heart, congratulations for their hard work and passion for getting a job well done.
The ultimate Samurai experience. This game is a MUST. An amazing closing for the PS4. Are you tired of boring open world games with a map filled with uninteresting icons that give you no reward? Are you tired of going up towers just to clear an area and get MORE icons? Are you tired of tons of loot that literally add nothing to the game? Are you tired of a mini-map that you end up staring at for 80% of the time instead of looking into the game itself? Ghost of Tsushima is the answer to that and much more! With almost no HUD, the scenario is your guide! All visual elements that stand out and get your attention, directing your journey and immersing yourself in the perfect Samurai experience. The combat is fluid and you can't rely on lock-on. Seems hard in the beginning, but mastering it gives not only the sensation of achievement but also makes you enjoy your fights even more. Jin is a really likeable character that you can understand and sympathise with. The voice acting is on point. All ability points add something new to the gameplay. Simply playing the flute in the middle of the grass fields, or paying respect when meeting someone, or cleaning your sword after the killing blow. Such small things, but with such an impact once you put yourself in Jin's perspective. I can't find a single complaint about this game. Yes, the camera might be clunky sometimes, but this is but a small problem when compared with all the fun and immersion this game can give you. I hope other companies learn from Ghost of Tsushima. This is open world done right.
Ghost of Tsushima is undeniably a beautiful game and an exceptional open-world game that can easily stand shoulder-to-shoulder with titles such as Red Dead Redemption 2 and LoZ: Breath of the Wild. This game is outstandingly gorgeous to the point that random screenshots of the game could easily be perceived as art. I'm not referring to the graphics, but rather the culmination of colors and environmental world design that makes the game uniquely appealing to look at. I've legitimately lost count of the number of times I was stopped dead like a deer caught in headlights in marvel of my surroundings and then took a screenshot, with the intent of using it as a wallpaper. The gameplay can be challenging, but nowhere near as demanding on the player as games like Sekiro or Nioh. As you get further in the game, more options open up as weapons, equipment, and techniques are unlocked. The game gives players the choice to play stealthy and rely on tricks (which the game will call you out on) or play honorably and fight through Mongol forces with nothing but your katana and your skill. The sword play is fast, but strategic. Hacking and slashing is quickly punished and parries and proper timing is greatly rewarded. Different sword stances are powerful against certain weapons/enemies. The starting stance is effective against swordsmen, while other unlockable stances will be effective against shields, spears, etc. Every once in a while, you'll get the chance to call out enemies into a showdown. Here, proper timing can allow you to kill your foe(s) in a single strike in homage to Japanese samurai films (think like the Eastern equivalent of an Old West duel). Pulling it off successfully is always satisfying, and the skill can be upgraded to chain together more strikes in a single showdown. Along with the ability to upgrade your stances and techniques, so can you with your weapons and armor. Throughout the game, cosmetic sword kits, clothes dye, and headbands/hats/helmets can be found to change Jin's appearance. Furthermore, different armor sets provide different stat bonuses. One set can increase how durable you are, another can make you harder to spot. Equipment is improved by taking the appropriate materials to a vendor, greatly increasing their effectiveness. Stats can similarly be buffed with an assortment of charms that can be found/awarded by either visiting shrines or completing side missions. With the right combination of armor and charms, any give play style can be greatly enhanced. A common problem with open-world games is that progressing through them often feels like a chore. As if you're merely checking off boxes after a while. I've never come across that feeling in Ghost of Tsushima. Instead, I've been near constantly eager to explore, charging on horseback through the fog of war to discover new, magnificent sights, and take on any challenges I come across. The game is packed with things to do, without feeling overbearing. I feel that may be due to the distinct and pleasant lack of a HUD. Instead, the game tries to guide players by using the wing to guide players to objectives/map markers while birds will lead you to undiscovered locations or side quests. This is a game where it's very easy to just take your time, pick a direction, and see what's in store for you. The narrative isn't as strong as Red Dead Redemption, but I did find it rather engaging and even compelling at times. The game starts with a massacre, with the samurai being all but wiped out. As Jin continues to fight, he begins to realize that the ways of the samurai might not be enough to defeat the Mongols. As he begins to adapt and start adopting new methods to fight from the shadows, Jin struggles with his upbringing as a samurai and the value of honor when faced against an enemy as dangerous as Khotun Khan and the Mongolian Empire. It's an interesting balance of internal and external conflict, which feels a bit cheapened as I continue to decimate the Mongol horde with my arsenal of explosives. In summary, Ghost of Tsushima is a fantastic game that is well-worth your money. The gameplay is fun, the setting is interesting, and the visuals are just drop-dead gorgeous. If you have any interest in Japanese culture, samurai films, or historical war pieces, then I can't recommend this game enough. It's a PS4 exclusive that's every bit as good as God of War, Spider-Man, and Horizon: Zero Dawn. You'd be doing yourself a disservice for skipping this one.

Its such a great game with amazing sceneries and the awesome combat makes you really feel in control of the character. One of the few games that make you feel like a samurai.
Is it perfect ? No . Is it really reaaaaallly good ? Yes. I haven't had a game in a long time where I kept saying " I'll go to bed in 30 mins " and it's 1:30 am and I'm so enthralled i find myself walking between some points soaking it all in. An adventure with excellent characters, plot , environment, lore, combat , music and pacing. I can't get enough.
This is sooo damn good. Battles are beauty, play on hard REAL hard. This is are 9,5 but (-0,5 for graphic - sometimes see some old graphic patterns). And story in game - FUU - very good. Sometimes i cry. In TLOU2 i laugh cuz story in that game is for little dummie girls
The game is most beautifull on ps4,great story,characters and open world.For me the is one of the best open world game I ever played.Thanks Sony and Sucker Punch for this wonderfull game.)))))))))
This is the most beautiful and interesting game of the year! After 30 hours of game play, I am simply enjoying it. The major story and quests are very interesting. it was a big surprise for me. Normally quests are boring, but here, I do like to find and accomplish all quests. The design of this game is simply fantastic. The minimalism of screen buttons was a very good idea. This game is not only a game, it is like a mini-movie! I recommend this game to everyone.
Juego precioso, de una ambientación y aspecto artístico sobresaliente. Los combates (al menos en difícil) son exigentes y muy gratificantes y por lo pronto la historia se sigue con bastante interés. Las misiones secundarias no me están pareciendo repetitivas y van añadiendo contexto y Lore al conjunto. En resumen, muy recomendable.
This game is completely amazing! I had doubts when pre-ordering the game, like I do for every game. But the story, takes, and equipment you get as the game proceeds is breathtaking. Within four days of its release I collected every trophy getting Platinum on this game. I’ve only done that for two other games. Even after doing that I continued the game get every collectible there is. Now that the game is at 100% completion I run around as a Legendary Ghost. Can’t wait to see what this game brings in the coming future. Hopefully a New Game+ feature or some sort of DLC. What ever it is I’ll still be playing the game.
Beautiful open world with a very satisfying battle mechanic. you can approach enemy with multiple ways and when the sword hit the enemy you can feel the contact. The most impressive things is the loading time, it takes only 3-10 sec to fast travel (I'm playing with PS4 slim) while similar game would take 30+ sec. This game feels like assassin's creed mixed with red dead redemption 2 but with it's own flavor. This game is not perfect though. the game lacking cinematic cutscene, it makes some scene less good and for some people maybe can make them less care about it. There also some bug in the game, and it got me CTD one time (hope they fix it in the future). But all the negative are overshadow by the positive things this game have. 15+ hours in the game and I still can't get enough of it. Good job Sucker Punch!
Stunning visuals, brilliant combat, and a wonderfully designed open-world. Anybody who cares for Samurai media in any way, this is a must play. The art design in terms of armor, swords, backgrounds, menus is top notch. Not to mention probably the most well executed and accessible photo mode of any game I’ve ever personally played. I was looking forward to this game but had honestly forgot about it until it snuck back up on my radar, snatched it up as soon as I saw it was out and don’t regret a second of it. If I had any gripes with it, I’d probably say sometimes the camera/movement relative to enemies can be annoying, but it never truly takes away from the experience. Please play this game.
This game is a breathtaking experience! The visuals are just amazing! The game plays great and it has a very interesting story! The only downside is that sometimes the animations are bad.

Ive played around 20hrs and im really enjoying Ghost of Tsushima. Graphically it is stunning, especially considering its open world! Fighting is extremely satisfying and even the side quests are interesting.
Game play , story , visuals and sound overall are great! Large amount of weapons and gadgets make the game-play extremely enjoyable. Open world has big variate of activities and quests. Character movement is a but sluggish in some situations , mainly during jumping puzzles. I played it on hard and it gave me enjoyable amount of challenge.
Amazing climate of samurai-era japan. Not a single mission feels like a side quest. All of them have a clever(often dark or tragic) twist, that makes them more interesting than some main quests in other games. Innovation that came with the “gps” system makes it much more fun and immersive. Combat just as satisfying as sekiros’ but much more accessible and arguably more fluid and fun. Definitely my favorite game of the era. If you liked senior, nioh, shadow of Mordor/war, assassin’s creed, dishonored you will definitely enjoy this game.
Had high hopes for this game and have not been disappointed. The world is amazing, so many times I've been on the way to a mission and get sidetracked by following foxes, birds, side missions or simply just exploring. The fighting is great and makes you feel like a real samurai, nice range of moves with the different stances and ghost (ninja) tools. I've seen a lot of people say they don't like the stealth but I've enjoyed it, it's been good to be able to switch between stealth and full on frontal attacks, standoffs are also great. I would definitely recommend playing on hard mode for the challenge and realism of battles. The main story I've played so far has been enjoyable too, not much I can complain of so far if I'm honest although I'm still on act 1 as keep getting distracted and exploring. The music in this game is also part of what makes it so great, definitely play with headphones if you haven't got a good sound system set up to get the best of it. Probably my favourite game of the year, will see by the end of the game whether it is up there with the best of the PS4 games.
Ghost of Tsushima is right up there on Top with Games like Tomb Raider - Uncharted - Senua etc . Gamers that like Adventure Action in a different way get it all in this Game . I hesitated purschasing this for a Week as i dont like Sword Games , i have never been so Wrong and dijudged this game unfairly . A full 10 from me . If you reading here you wasting playing this awesome Game . GO GET IT NOW .....
Great game Really good graphics. Really nice gameplay. Good story. Good characters.


The best samurai-themed game, cool combat and great storyline. There are problems like stupid bots in stealth and the lack of animation for steps on the stairs. But all these problems are closed by the spectacular combat that the game presents, in this game you cannot live even five minutes without a fight.

The world is beautiful, simply stunning, the story is as strong as it needs to be, but the combat, is just wow, forget the mindless button spamming and get ready to learn some sick combos and different stances against different type of enemies, and on higher difficulties, well for me at least....to die....a lot
As many people have stated the outstanding positives of this game I won't be repeating them myself.(atmosphere, gameplay,story, narrative execution etc.) The game has indeed some problems though minor ones. I write this review after I platinumed the game. - The stealth sections are not bad. Yes, they are not TLOU 2 improvements we've seen but keep in mind this is an open world game. Yes, it's not revolutionary. The problem lies with some upgrades you get in-game(like stealth armor-charms) which make the stealth less believable. But if you play it on hard without any real stealth upgrades the AI is believable enough(at least as far as the most open world AI is considered). However, in my opinion, it does a good enough job to immerse you in the gameplay of the Ghost. I would like to see improvements in next gen in this aspect from SuckerPunch though. - Mid to Late game you have so many tools that you are cheat. This same problem I dealt with Jedi: Fallen Order. As in Jedi where you could brute your way with the OP force, here you have so many tools that bypass the enemies defenses that if you abuse them the game is a joke(difficulty wise) even in hard. 5 Kunais, Sticky bombs, grenades, explosive arrows, smokebombs which leads in 3 chains assasinations. You can do most of the stuff in mid-late game without having to dodge-parry anything. And the enemies drop a good amount of them back so you can keep going. Though this is done to push the ghost gameplay, it overshadows the really good swordsman gameplay of the game. I would advice to not abuse them and the game will be more fun. At least this is how I feel like. - Act III was a bit small. Or at least I felt like that. I think Acts I and II were really good content wise whereas Act III was half in content. In coclusion, I would like to add that loading times for this game were REALLY good. I have the base Ps4 with the base HDD and fast travel was 3-7 secs. Respawning was 3-4 secs. That made the hunt for platinum and the overall experience very smooth( can't wait for Ps5 SSD :D ). Please don't take this review as a bad one. I'm just pointing out some minor things that could be improved upon. The game is awesome and I loved it. I would give it a 9.2 but heck it everyone seems to like it a lot! Thanks for reading I hope I helped you a bit.



Это игра одна из лучших про японскую культуру. (она заставила меня углубится в японскую историю.) Хотелось бы увидеть продолжение. Спасибо!
Absolute gem of a game. Interesting story, great action. Usual open world features don't play with the usual boredom - coming across a bandit camp is met with excitement. To say this game is a zero is disingenuous, some very strange reviews on here. If even the biggest sceptic played this game objectively it is beautiful and well thought out at the very least. I am hooked have not put down for 3 days. It was a 9 until I finished it, my god the last scene was unbelievable. Also defending one town in the story made me literally stand up and cheer. Takes a lot to get me emotional. Amazing!
The game is so great. Combat, big map to explore, graphics...everything that keep you connected for hours . Has few bugs but nothing major to ruin this amazing experience. Enjoy!
El juego es un Assassins Creed descafeinado ya que el sigilo esta muy mal llevado y parece estar totalmente demás. La nota de los usuarios están totalmente infladas solo por su calidad de exclusivo de sony. Es un juego de 7.5 a lo mucho.
The more time I put into this game the more I love it. I was nervous when the devs had said the combat would be deadly but once I settled in with it's flow I find it very rewarding. Sucker Punch is back to form after their misstep with Second Son and GoT can sit proudly next to Infamous and Infamous 2. All of the different elements of this game come together to make a fantastic experience. I've been waiting for a Samurai game like this for years!
Si te apasiona la ambientación del Japón feudal, si como yo, vibras cabalgando ataviado con una armadura de samurai a través de humedales de arroz o simplemententre con sobrios harapos de ronin errante, cruzando entre arboles que desprenden petalos de cerezo mientras suenan flautas tradicionales japonesas. Si disfrutas envainando una katana tras sacudir la sangre de su hoja, o al desenvainarla lentamente ante la visión de unos vandidos asolando un poblado o asaltando a un mercader indefenso en el camino, si te recreas con el manejo de la cámara en los trayectos, en los paisajes preciosistas y coloridos: Este juego es una 11 sobre 10 y ESTE ES TU JUEGO, y seguramente como yo, has estado esperando paciente por una experiencia de mundo abierto que otorgue cierta libertad basada en el Japón que Kurosawa plasmaba en sus películas. Disfruta. Por el contrario, si desconoces terminos como Wakizashi, Seppuku, Tsuba, Saya o Iaido, en el peor de los casos sigue siendo un notable altísimo. En ambas tesituras, Ghost of Tsushima es un portento en lo que a dirección artística se refiere, un fuera de serie. Sus virtudes eclipsan sobradamente sus defectos y carencias.
I love this game. Can't stop playing. I'm so happy Ghost of Tsushima is how the last game of the PS4 is going to be remembered, and not that other game.
What a way for the ps4 to end. GOT is by far in the top 5 of my favorite games of this console generation. Graphics-fantastic, story-captivating, swordplay-superb. Everything is spot on. Highly reccomend this game. If you don't pick up this obe, you will miss out on one of the best.
Чисто субъективно и лично для меня, это именно та игра которую я ждал. Многие винят, что это клон ассасина ... нет друзья. В этой игре ты поистине ощущаешь себя искусным воином. От крутого сетинга до крутой боевки , и это ещё не все . Игра удивляет своей насыщенностью и проработкой феодальной Японии. Считаю, что в ней собраны все лучше идеи подобного жанра и отточены до идеала. Есть вопросы по физике и передвижениям главного героя, но это не так сильно бросается в глаза. Для фанатов японской культуры очень рекомендую .
By FAR the best video game i ever played And that says a lot becuse my all time favorite game series far cry is bumbed to number 2. As soon as the leaks for last of two came out I cancelled my preorder for that and pre orders this and yes im upset at the fact that it didn't make my youtube channel snailgames 223 bigger than 539 SUBS but ive been playing it by my self and. Let me tell you this is the first game that made me want to not use my horse or vehicle and just walk to my destination beutiful land scrap and anybody who writes a bad review is just simping for last of us 2

Very good combar system. Very poetic game. The best landscape graphics i ever see in a game. Great side quests. Goty in my opinion. Makes you feel living in feudal Japan. Go play fast! That metacritic note 88 its outrageous! Its deserves até least 93!
Game that almost Perfect... The only Minus about this game is the Camera Control + Strike button... If they change/remap the Strike button into R1/L1 it will be enjoyable and don't have problem with the camera movement... Other than that ?? Story = 10/10 Graphics = Fantastic/10 Animation = 9/10 Music = Beauty/10 Sound and Voice Acting = ASMR/10 This game is PURE MASTERPIECE... This game is absolutely GOTY Contender...
This is certainly the most beautiful game I've played and it has some great mechanics to go with the scenery. The story is great and I love the feeling of exploring Japan during the 1200s. Combat is great - like others, I thought it was too easy at first, but the difficulty ramps up nicely. The progression system feels rewarding and the abilities you can unlock are all useful and creative. All in all, I'm having a blast playing this game!

Grand game. Beautiful visuals, great story with fleshed out characters. Stealth is good, ai can be a bit dumb though, combat makes up for that with fantastic animations and sound. Stances are fun to switch between and tools are all useful. Expert HUD mode and hard mode combined create a very challenging experience. There's some parry timing inconsistencies, bugs where the animation occurs but you still take damage, that need ironing out. overall, this is one of the few games I've put time into getting that platinum trophy for. Would say it's a 9 but since idiots are either review bombing, or crying 'cultural appropriation waaa' about this title, I'm bumping it up as a counter. Don't listen to these fools who are salty about the last of us 2, this game is awesome, and deserves praise.
I'm about half way through and thank God finally a good game! The story keeps me interested, the quests are fun, the combat is always fresh and realistic feeling, the mechanics are fluid and feel solid and the environments! My god! This has to be the best looking game I've ever seen in my 25 years of gaming! Its just a good old fun game! Needed this so bad after that huge disappointment last month!
The story of this game is quite good, and the game-play is designed to resemble assassin creed OG + Sekiro but the most realistic character movements are the counterattack. The game also shows us the dark side in the war that people will easily betray to seek peace and keep their lives.

I've enjoyed the game so far other than a few minor glitches the game is still quite enjoyable. The movement reminds me of a toned down version of sekiro and combat is simple but it doesn't feel relative. Over all the games is gorgeous and worth experiencing
《对马岛》有着美轮美奂的画面，令人动容的剧情与爽快淋漓的操作体验，让人确实能够沉浸其中无法自拔。PS4时代完美的谢幕作！谢谢SP给我带来了久违的感动！Thank you，SP！G.O.T brings me moved that I have not seen for a long while！
At first, the game caused only one yawn and indignation from what he saw. But, nevertheless, after playing it for several tens of hours, you will really be imbued with the history of the protagonist and the spirit of that ancient Japan. The only drawbacks are the first act and the rather awkward camera controls. All in all, SP has a pretty passable game trhat closes the PS4 exclusive lineup.

Pros -Amazing Graphics -Aesthetic is Amazing -Great Voice Acting -Main Story is very compelling and well done -Story Tales are very well written and well done Cons -Stealth is not as good as it could be -Some regular side quests are a bit repetitive -AI is bad when you are using Stealth
The Best video game on the genre... borrows a lot of thing from other games and make it better. The art on the game is superb, and the combat!!! it’s incredible. No **** quick animations, not annoying stuff... Sucker Punch nailed it . Thank you

WOW.. I knew this game would be good, and I knew that I would love it, because I LOVE Ninja Games, I love Samurai games, Having been a huge fan of Ninja Gaiden, Tenchu, Sekiro, Onimusha, and LOVING Basically all good story third person action games.. I wish most games could be this style, and with combat as fun, Simple, but also VERY complex if you are willing to put in the time and effort, and it gets Soo much better as you get more skills.. People compare this to Assassin's Creed, and it has similarities, but it is SOO much better in a lot of ways for me.. The combat is 1,000x more fun, I NEVER get tired of it, and the Standoffs are fantastic, a lot of times when I am roaming an Open world game, if i see a group of enemies I will avoid them(unless I am grinding for XP) in this game I fight ALL challengers, and thoroughly enjoy every encounter. I just played a Siege mission, and it was one of my favorite missions in any game i've ever played. The one on one Boss battles are wonderful, they are soo cinematic, and I wish there were more!! My only qualm is I wish there was one or two higher difficulties, not as hard as Sekiro and Dark Souls, but perhaps a Very Hard/Ghost Mode that is somewhere in the middle of this game and those games. And the camera and targeting could be tweaked a bit, But the positives FAR outweigh the small amount of negatives!! We DEFINITELY need a New Game Plus!! I will buy ANY sequels or DLC instantly, my GOTY for sure..
This greatly anticipated title fortunately does not fail to deliver to the expectations. If you´re a Japanese culture lover (like myself) you´re likely to adore this entry, (as tropical and historically incoherent as it may present sometimes) for its dynamics in combat, in digital environments and in giving you a full insight of what it felt like to be a Samurai in one of Japan´s most difficult nation building times.

Очень красивая и приятная игра.Да, многие механики уже были, но в какой игре такого нет?Понравилась плавня боёвка с медленными и взвешенными ударами.В большинстве игр это тупое клацанье мыши по кд. Графика, музыка, повествование на высоте.Давно не хватало нормальной игры про Японию этого времени.Считаю её намного лучше TLOU2, хотя их сравнивать не корректно
Хорошая игра. Не играл, нет консоли. Но это куда лучше чем сраная ТЛОУ2, где толератнности и прочей бесовщины через край.
I can’t remember the last time I’ve been this satisfied with a game. After how big of a let down the last of us 2 was it’s a breath of fresh air to play a game with such an amazingly original story, gorgeous scenery, and unbeatable gameplay! If you plan on getting this game clear a week or two out of your schedule because it’ll be difficult to put the controller down.
Un gran juego con una ambientación brutal, buena historia y un combate que mejora a medida que vas desbloqueando más habilidades. La exploración es magnifica a tal punto que te puedes pasar las primeras 20 horas de juego vagando por el mundo sin terminar el acto 1. Lo que no me gusto es que no se pueden desactivar los consejos y a veces llegan a ser molestos, si ya estoy jugando en la máxima dificultad obviamente no necesito consejos... Aun así me parece un 10.
This game for sure "Sucker Punched" me in the face. one of the best samurai simulators out. the open world aspect is breath taking, the story is good. and the fighting mechanics are great. i give it a 9 out of 10 souly for open world reasons. i know that OWG's have a formula to stick with but they pull it off fairly well there are just better OWG's out so i cant say its the best. but it is worth the play through and for completionest it will keep you busy for hours. i have 30+ hours in and im still finding things. but all in all this game is fun and they ticked a lot of boxes when it comes to historical accuracy and making you feel like a samurai. its a must buy.
I have played quite a lot of action combat games in PS4 including Assassin series and Soul series. This game just makes it to another level. You are really watching a classic Japanese warrior movies while you are playing. The action is cool, fancy and gorgeous. The scene looks fantastic with 1000% Japanese styles. One of the best games in 2020 and a great relief during epidemic time.

So far so good beautiful landscape and swordplay Storytelling is good. After my post traumatic experience with TLOU2 I was reticent into buying this game. This is a must play for any fan of open world rpg slash action adventure
Absolutely amazing. The visuals are sooo amazing. What many people fail to realize is that visuals in a video game is not just good resolution and texture maps with good shadows. The visuals should have good composition and design. And this game does that so well that its almost unfair even for games on the same system. The cutscenes express emotions and conflict very well and they translate beautifully into gameplay. Framing for shots of pivotal moments are always very strong and powerful. The gameplay is a treat as well. You actively think about how you want to play the game. Its has nice variety and very fun overall. The game makes you feel the weight of ypur sword as you stand in a field staring your opponent in the eye. The battle commences, You can decide how you want to play it, some ways do work better on opponents better than others so you're conscious of how you fight. You really come to understand what the protagonist is like as person. You are aware of his motivations and the mechanisms of his thinking. And then the weight of his actions fall on your conscience and it is the most surreal experience I have had in a game. Amazing game clearly the best I've played this year.
Personnaly i would recomand this game it is a breath of fresh air really sucker punch showed awessome stuff in this game i think that this is what an exclusive is like not like that tlo2 that was a50% this is a must buy like spider man gow and other great single player games
ТЛОУ2 фаны агрятся на игру за то, что их игра хуже. Понимаю. Боевка супер, графика приятная, сюжет хороший :)
This game has a real assassin's creed feel to it - but they've done it better than Unisoft. Guess it's the AC game we wanted for years. Only downside is a bit repetitive, but hey, that's the AC formula.
Great game with a great combat system and upgrades. Love the story and art style. If you're tired of woke trash games with boring contrived storylines you'll love this game.


The combat is crisp and works well for beginners or novices who want to try their hand at something a little more stylized. Environment is gorgeous. One of the most beautiful pieces of art I have ever seen. Great story. Only very minor gripe is there is some control glitches, but I am sure they will be patched out.
I'm not gonna nitpick the game to the smallest of details because none of it takes away from how enjoyable the game is, I'm just going to give a honest opinion from an average gamer. Ghost Of Tsushima is one of best games I've played in recent years, it had me immersed in the game and finding myself losing track of time. The last time a game has done that to me was God of War. It's worth the play, there's nothing more to it.
Отличная реализация открытого мира,красивая графика и физика,японцы знаю что делают.
Just binged through this game and I think its great. It has the most beautiful environments i have seen in a game and has very few flaws in my opinion. I found myself not using the fast travel system because of how great everything looks. Combat takes some time to get used to but when you get it down it feels great. Only real downside for me is that the pacing is a little weird sometimes as far as progressing to a point to get the best skills and armors. It feels like this game is what Assassin's Creed should have evolved into but didn't. The story is not the greatest and can be predictable, but it is certainly good and the characters are relatable. The only reason I wont give a 10 is because the gameplay sometimes falls into the trap of repetitiveness which is pretty common with modern day open world games. It also doesn't bring anything really new to the table gameplay wise. Probably not a 9 but I dont think it should be as low as an 8 either. In my opinion it is worth playing purely for how beautiful it is when riding through the environment.
A breath of fresh air, great game-play, interesting story line and great setting. All in all a great game, my only con is I wish there was a lock on during combat. This is a must have for all who own a PS4
This game is almost perfect in every regard,in terms of sounds,visuals, and gamplay.I usually dont care all that much about graphics but I was legitimately suprised by how many particle effects they threw onscreen.I didnt know the original ps4 could handle all that.My only complaint is that around the second half of the game the tasks become a touch repetitive.Definitly worth a try
A visually beautiful, stunning and gorgeous game set in feudal Japan with a simple and robust story centering around holding on to your honor as a samurai or discarding or discarding it as the dishonorable ghost of tsushima as you tear through the Mongols to reclaim your home. What i personally love about this game is that it is NOT defiled with identity politics as the and stays true to it's roots. Thumbs up SuckerPunch!!!
Absolutely masterpiece, i waited years for a game like that, a little more effort and it the game could have been a full 10, but is still good Pros: -The environments and landscapes -The combat system is very deep and pretty challeging for most part of the game -Story is simple but works pretty well -The music is so good, and is always in theme with the moment -Sidequests are pretty well written and the legendary missions are a good add -The sense of progress and power Cons: -Can become ripetitive -Technical sector somewhat backward compared to other ps4 exclusives -If you are tierd of open worlds well, I have bad news for you
The reason this game is recieving high praise is because it deserves it. I've been playing my pc since december haven't touched my ps4 and I'm happy I still got it. Everything about this title is epic. My gf literally gets stuck watching me play and it's obvious, the game is beautiful the graphics are insane, the best the ps4 has to offer r.n The combat is easily some of the best but just like the Arkham games can get a little to easy( I play on the hardest difficulty) especially when you get his skills up. Not saying you wont get your ass kicked but you can literaly slice and dice your way threw anyone once Jin skills are up. You do have your one on one duels that prove to be more difficult. This is really where the feel of a samurai showdown is happening where you can literaly say its damn near perfection, is the a god damn movie? No no this is in fact a video game. Stealth makes the game easy so playing like a true samurai is what makes the game 10xharder saichallange. The story is surprisingly good still 3easy to guess what will happen Depending on how many films you've watched on games you've played. Still very well acted and emotional. By far this has to be the game of the year.

Im just going to start by saying i never give games a 10/10 but after putting in 50+ hours into this gmae i have to say this is the only game this year that i feel a 10 is warranted. Lets start with the main Categories: Graphics: Easily the best looking game to come out recently on the PS4 it is a work of art and often i found myself stopping just to look around. Next we have Story: Although the story to me seemd very straight forward i still geniuelly enjoyed it and its simplicity allowed me to focus heavily on other aspects like combat and the visuals a lot more. and Lastly we have Sound: The Track in this game literally gave me goosebumps and the amazing score compilied with brilliant set pieces was a sight to behold. I also like how this western developer has more respect towards a eastern culture then some western developers have had to western culture. This Developer being Sucker Punch and the other Naughty.
Came here to say this game is a masterpiece, and all of you TLOU2 whiny **** trying to bring down the review scores can smd. Anyways this game is amazing, have a nice day.


Jogo muito bom, cenário e música sensacional, o que me impediu de dar 10 foi por conta das missões que realmente são repetitivas, mas nada que atrapalhe o jogo em si, acho que isso é mais uma questão pessoal, jogo bom.

Лучшая игра 2020, просто восхитительно, никогда небыло таких игр про японию, за исключением секиро
i just played it and the only thing that i can say it is super great i can say its the best game for 2020
Absolutely wonderful atmosphere and gameplay. The only portion of the game that falls short is the glitches and bugs, which will hopefully get ironed out in the coming weeks. Sucker Punch delivered an instant classic with good storytelling, a gorgeous world, and great gameplay mechanics. My favorite release of 2020 to date. I can't wait to see what Sucker Punch has in store for us in the future.

A very good Samuraj game. So far I am 20 +hours in to the game and it is absolutely amazing .. graphics wise the game is beautiful .. the game play you actually feel like a samurai .. compared to ac it's better .. the sword feels like you are slicing through dudes the enemies are not damage sponges .
One of the best of this generation, super fun, good mechanics, beautiful graphics and a good story. It’s a must play for any PS4 owner in my opinion.
This game is incredible. From the first few cinematics of the game you can immediately see the hard work put into bringing Tsushima to life from the tall grass, the flames from the aftermath of a battle, the blood of fallen warriors, and the simple details like sweat dripping down a man's face or the expressions on a character's face. Overall the game has a very real Assassin's Creed/Red Dead Redemption type feel, but in a good way as it makes you familiar with the gameplay which is extremely easy to pick up in the first two minutes of the game. The controls are easy and very quick to understand which I absolutely loved especially when it comes to the combat and sword fighting. Speaking of that, the combat mechanics in the game are absolutely amazing and the different sword fighting styles that bring the game to life are absolutely next-level. My favorite part is how you simply make the game your own whether you choose to go stealth, or face the enemy head-on in an absolute brawl. The little details as well, where after a fight you can use the touchpad to allow Jin to wipe the blood off the sword? AWESOME! This game's story was also a big step up from other titles as well as you get sucked into Jin's story of proving himself a honorable samurai and his duty to save his uncle. As a son who recently lost his father- I felt every moment of Jin's story and the challenges he faced. Start to finish the story was great and the ability to pause at any moment to go explore and enjoy the open world was by far one of the best features as well. You didn't feel like it was very linear and you were told you only had ths approach and "this" direction to go, unlike other titles *cough cough*. I will say this game may be my current favorite for game of the year. Pros: -Visuals and every detail down to the environment -Combat controls and fight mechanics -Fluid and well-written story from top to bottom and side missions as well' -Customization and character development in skills and abilities to suit your style -Well driven open world with plenty to do and explore, FOXES ARE COOL! -Executions and stealth kills were impressive. Cons: -Clunky at times while riding on the horse, but nothing too overboard that ruins the feel for the game. -Certain cutscenes where the dialogue and character movement appear to be off. -Absence of the HUD made travel a challenge, but the wind mechanic was pretty tolerable. Overall I scored this a 9 out of 10 on replay-ability, the visuals and gameplay, the sound is amazing, and the story arc as well as features of this game are fantastic. This game is a 100% must-buy. Congrats Sucker Punch!
Completing up to about 60% of the game I want to start off by saying this game is beautiful I can literally frame and hang up anything I see in this game, truly makes me wanna visit this island in person, I appreciate the photo mode in that regard, but most of all I really enjoy the fact that I can pick and choose how I want to play it instead of the game holding my hand while following a singular path, this game allows me to play it the way I want to with techniques, and strategies that I have to create. The story is fascinating and keeps you wondering what will happen next as all the characters have their struggles to preserve themselves without giving in to pressure of destroying who they were. That being said I hadn't seen much bugs or glitches, nothing major from what i have noticed at least, I can only nitpick about how hefty the character's "main" armor looks compared to the cover of the game or how i wish i could dual-wield katanas but maybe they're saving that one for another game. I also want to point out that this game expanded my knowledge on Japanese culture and I believe although it is only a game it honors the memory of the real men and women of that time. Thank you for an amazing experience Sucker Punch. Looking through the reviews I hate that everyone is comparing this to TLOU2 as if this was a subreddit or TLOU2 is the newest DarkSouls preset comparison but I sort of get it. It was the latest anticipated game that everyone had an opinion about. I'm just hoping more people realize that critic companies are just as human as the people who review bombs.
First off, I have never spent so much time in photo mode. This game is magically delicious and it keeps getting sexier the farther you get. The combat is smooth and soooo damn satisfying. The navigation is clever using the wind as direction and animals that delightfully help you find cool placing in the world. The voicing acting and story are fantastic and I can't put this game down. Ive been trying to finish the Witchter 3 for like years and now I prob never will. I have this game now.
Gran titolo! Da amante del Giappone e del cinema giapponese sono felice di aver trovato in questo titolo una stupenda lettera d'amore verso quella che è la cultura giapponese. Gameplay eccellente e super divertente, storia non incredibile ma bella e ben narrata, molto ispirata a vari film di Kurosawa, missioni secondarie tra le migliori di sempre insieme alle secondarie di The Witcher 3 e pochi altri, grafica da sogno con panorami mozzafiato! Unici difetti una IA nella media nelle sessioni stealth, una telecamera migliorabile in certi spazi stretti, il resto è soggettivo!
After recently playing Death Stranding and Last of Us 2, I wasn’t sure if this game would live up to my expectations. However, this game grows on you. For the first few hours I was unsure if I’d really enjoy this game, but after powering through that introduction, I am in love with this game. It doesn’t do anything brand new or exciting, but it is a great story and a really well done game! The combat feels GREAT and fresh and requires patience, skill and understanding of what works against who. The Ghost Weapons add another dynamic to that, there’s LOTS of skills that are useful so it doesn’t feel like you’ve got all of the skills you need early. The game does a good job of changing the combat dynamic throughout the game so it doesn’t get super repetitive. I am not typically a samurai fan, however, this game has made me one. Definitely well worth the money. I am about 25-30 hours into the game and just passed the first act into the second one, granted I’ve been really focusing on leveling my character and completing the side quests for rewards. The one downside or con to this game is that the NPC and side quest dialogue isn’t very compelling visually. The conversation is good, if you close your eyes the dialogue is great, but it doesn’t give you much visually in that aspect. That’s the only con I have so far. Other than that, this is a fun, exciting and well done game. Easily a GOTY candidate!
Great game! If your any sort of fan of samurai or even the earlier assassins creed games and loved those tough but awesome duels in sekiro then you'll love this game. It has a big beautiful map with many places to explore, breath of the wild esque but you can't climb everything. Side quests barely feel like a side quest compared to most of the video games that get their side quest inspiration from MMO's, instead it feels like you're really going around helping and saving the people of Tsushima to be free from the Mongol invaders. Graphics are great comparable to Horizon zero dawn. I might be spoiled by PC gaming but I hate motion blur and since this is a console you can disable it sadly so I had to adjust and get used to that dumb graphical tweak that consoles live so much. All in all that's my only gripe with the game and I wouldn't have noticed it if I wasn't a PC player. So I you like a good sword fight or samurai movies and stories, pick up Ghost of Tsushima you'll love it.
Absolute masterpiece. You owe it to yourself if you are at all interested in Japan or its history, or even just as another open world adventure title. Trust me. Play it. Nuff said.
This game I came into low expectations in the beginning thinking this was just another jade dynasty game , generic Japanese culture game. But playing it almost 10 to 15 hours into the game ( currently in the mission tale of ryuizo ). I would say this game is stunning and amazing to.look at. There are glitches in thr game don't get me wrong. But its not game breaking. There was a part sensei ishikawa got stuck in one of the steps of his dojo and I just started laughing. I loved it. But the game play and the open world is rich and a lot of stuff to do in it. From mongols stronghold to side mythic tales ( my favorite so far is heavenly strike) to side mission from characters you recruited in the main missions of the game. Give you a sense of great character development and a sense of immersion in each unique characters. To lady masako to ryuizo. Sorry if I'm butchering these names. I cant wait to finish this game and see the ending . I loved how you can upgrade your armour from the supplies you get throughout the game and the platforming is heavenly. Despite glitches when you fight a bear for the first time ( makes you think the bear is a different object and throws you around like a rag doll) its intense and rewarding when you win a fight against the mongols invading island of Tsushima. This game is what makes a game godlike and fun. Of course is not the greatest game but it comes close to red dead redemption and God of war remake for the ps4. Sucker punch you amazed me on how creating a game is . props to you and the team your company has. Don't let them go and keep creating awesome games. **** NAUGHTY DOG AND THE LAST OF US PART II!!!!!
Best samurai game I ever played and I played most of the samurai games. This games is just too good, Story, gameplay and sound is great. Visual style is OMG. Buy the game now!.




Great game. You can clearly see the gameplay Inspirations from other games but GOT evolves all that. The kurosawa mode is genius and the story a solid 8! not goty (that’s TLoU2) but a really solid solo game! another ps hit!
Easily one of the best games I've ever played. The combats great, I really love the exploration and the visuals...if you're a gamer you SHOULD really play this game! Truly a game of a GENERATION!!

This game is amazing. The graphics will leave you stopping for a moment on your trail to admire the scenery. The original, fun, and flashy combat will make you feel like a true badass. The story is great but not perfect, as it can be quite predictable at times, but there are some great moments you will not want to miss. The length of the game is not drawn out, but not too short, while at the same time leaving you wanting more. The only gripes I have are that some aspects of the game can have a repetitive nature, but none of it seems to be required. It's not some trash rushed AAA game, which is actually a lot to ask for nowadays. Anyways, if you can afford this game, definitely get it I would give it a 9.5/10, but as that's not possible on this website, the game deserves a 10 over a 9 any day.
Wow. Just wow. Suckerpunch is my favorite game developer since Infamous 1 on PS3. The actual game play in their games is second to none. Ghost of Tsushima is no different. I was thinking The Last of Us 2 would be my Game of the Year, but after playing it I was left extremely disappointed. So glad Ghost of Tsushima came out right after to wash away that bad taste in my mouth left by The Last of Us 2. Ghost of Tsushima's gameplay is literally amazing and addicting. The graphics are the best I've ever seen because of the art direction. This is my GOTY for now. It's a tragedy that it does not have that "must play label" on metacritic while a low tier game like Last of Us 2 has one. Critics are definitely underrating this game.
Good game with a very good narrative, the gameplay is excellent. Godd game, Me encanto mucho
Awesome game, Game of the year for me , the open world is beautiful good story telling the graphics are insane good the colors lighting are so perfect sucker punch didn’t disappoint with this project they really put all of their work on this game just paying attention on the details tells you everything.

I’m still on the first part of the island. The map and side quest are large enough to keep you occupied, but not so grossly insane as to where my add kicks in and I forget what mission I’m on. Duel scenes are beautiful, albeit not too challenging so far. It’s definitely my type of game. And I have only put it down for a couple of squad up games of fifa and 2k with the bros. I also love that I don’t have to choose between 37 types of main weapons etc, and the fact that you can’t instantly fast travel to any visited previous visited location, with minimal load time, instead of riding a hour for 10 mins. (looking at you RDR)
Ghost of Tsushima isn’t very original gameplay-wise and its open world feels a bit tired, but the sheer quality of content, the stylish action, the fantastic sound design and the beautiful environment make this a must-play.
This game is FANTASTIC! Truly a masterpiece that builds upon its predecessors and listens to the recommendation from fans. FFXV was massive and epic but got bogged down in a bunch of disconnected "run and fetch" quests that made the player lose their connection to the story. GoT weaves the all the quests, main and side, together masterfully. I look forward to going on them, not trudging through them, completing them for completions sake like in FFXV. Horizon Zero Dawn was a lot of fun but for some reason just didn't hook me and in HZD and FFXV I found myself looking at the minimap and moving a triangle through a maze COMPLETELY ignoring and missing incredibly impressive and detailed landscapes. GoT did away with maps and cleverly added a "follow the wind" mechanism that is actually part of the story. Now I travel the island, completely aware of my surroundings, often with my mouth agape. Another "lessons learned" GoT uses is not getting stuck in the trees. There are so many open world games, especially when using a horse or vehicle, where you get stuck in the trees and it is annoying AF to navigate. So much so, you don't even use the conveyance anymore. GoT does away with this. The landscape is still dotted with an assortment of vegetation but you walk or ride right through them. It REALLY improves gameplay and makes exploring fun instead of tiresome, frustrating and tedious. The previous examples may seem fairly specific but that is because the obvious stuff, gameplay, graphics, story, and soundtrack are all simply amazing. I was reluctant to belabor the obvious and probably wouldn't even have bothered to write this had it not been for little details SuckerPunch included that I really appreciated. I wanted to make sure there's at least a chance someone from SuckerPunch noticed that there are players that appreciate their efforts, even the subtle ones. Just an unequivocal must purchase for any gamer.
Nearly a perfect open-world game. The story is well written and entertaining, the combat evolves over time, and the graphics - my god the graphics.. my only minor gripes are some small bugs and a few a.i. issues. My pick for game of the year
This game is so beautiful I practically don't ride my horse, I just walk around everywhere to admire its beauty. It's minimal UI also contributes to this sense of beauty. Also, combat is very funny. Only down to it is the in-combat camera, which sometimes gets "a little lost" around the place.
GoT is easily the best game I have played in a long time. It is a true winner. Sucker Punch has moved up to AAA. As usual, the mainstream press doesn’t like it because it doesn’t feature woke life, forget the fact that it takes place in and around the year 1200 in Japan. It’s pathetic, the professional reviewers are so shallow. Any game which has some form of perversion and a female or trans lead is an instant 10, no matter how horrible the game is to play - see TLOU2 (terribly unfun game). The best thing I can say about GoT, it is essentially The Witcher 3 in Japan. I have never liked a samurai game this much, ever. Amazing that an American company did this. I actually prefer GoT over Sekiro, GoT is the better game. Between RDR2, Sekrio, GoT - I’d take GoT. RDR2 went too heavily on realism and it got boring. Sekiro went too hard on the difficulty, fun but ultimately it was a chore. GoT nails the perfect balance between exploration, story, combat (easily better than W3 combat), and character. Jin Sakai is a great character. His backstory makes perfect sense and adds to the immersion of the game. In fact all of the characters in this game are so well done, I don’t think I’ve seen a game do characters this well since maybe RDR (the first one). You are going to love this game, I guarantee it. Best game this year, until cyberpunk. It really scratches that W3 open world exploration itch, and the story is hugely satisfying. I don’t even bother to read IGN, Kotaku, Gamespot, etc... they are so biased against normalcy now that they just can’t let themselves review a game honestly. Everything has to pass through their woke filter and if the game narrative doesn’t fit the woke agenda they hit the game with a low score. Anyone who gives Ghost of Tsushima a 7 or less, is a moron. This game is EXCELLENT! Better than Days Gone, and that game was fun. This game is an easy 9 on any day. Only thing that would make a 10 is a bit more variety in the exploration, foxes and birds are cool... but a few other types would make this game a 10. Still, I enjoy every minute of this game. Witcher 3 is a 10, no doubt. Ghost of Tsushima is a solid 9. Horizon was a solid 8. Excellent game. Thank you Sucker Punch! Looking forward to your future!
I am so Glad GoT came along to clean all my disappointment form other titles i wont mention. This game is borderline Masterpiece, and what really, really makes me love it is the art direction in conjunction with a magnificent sound and music...it creates a true feel of Easter culture, peace, spiritual vibes and tranquility. The Combat is solid in my opinion although the lack of lock on is really kicking my back.... i have not be able to adapt 100% but i'm getting there.... Story and narrative are way above my expectation to be honest, based on Second Son i was not expecting too much from Sucker-Punch in terms of narrative but they gave me a good surprise.. highly recommended game truly if you love open world and "at your own pace" experience this is a game to remember.
Great imagination and world building, characters are fresh and interesting. I can see myself playing this game for a very long time and even revisiting at a later date and that is rare in today’s gaming. It is evident that great care and effort went into this, Really hitting the ancient Japanese culture and with World designs and even fight mechanics. Only downside for myself is some side tasks can prove a little dull and respective from time to time but nothing painstaking by any means, I have also had some difficulty getting used to the controls but it eventually came to me after some practice. Kirasawa mode is a very cool touch.
Amazing. Easily one of the best games of the generation, much less just the PS4. I'm only just got the grappling hook late last night... But I'm around 15 hours in. I spent a lot of time completing side quests, don't @ me. I love how much there is to do and HOLY CRAP IT'S BEAUTIFUL.
Great game, a worthy swan song for the PS4. Not perfect, no target lock can irritate and some some collision issues when jumping in certain places. With that said, the graphics are stunning, the environments diverse and the story is good with the focal point being Jin's duality between his honor and saving his people. Combat is cool, with mastering stances being a prime aspect of combat.
system: Ps4 Pro TV: Samsung 75" QLED Games I love playing: witcher 3, Red dead 2, Assassins creed odyssey Playtime: 10 hours so far (will update later) My review: Wow!!! this game is beautiful and really pays homage to its setting of Feudal Japan. Honestly this game took my breath away and the grass is amazing! Story is great as well. Do not believe the critic review of 83 (mid -tier game) this is an amazing feat that the studio has accomplished. Combat is fun, scenery is unbelievable, story is great. This has everything i wanted. Also everything feels crafted (unlike ubisoft titles that are typically copy and paste).
Sucker Punch has nailed it. This game is a highlight title for the PS4 console generation. What I don't understand is why LOU2 has a higher score than this beautiful game?


I LOVE THIS GAME. This game is visually beautiful with stunning graphics, it's one of the few games i take time to enjoy the environment around me and even take photos, which i never do. The combat in this game i would say is kinda simple but very fun, i like to take on groups and enjoy the chaos, ending my enemies in style. The story isn't complex but is a story you can sympathise with, essentially it is well wrote story of a samurai resorting to tactics that break his code of honour in order take back his home from the mongol invasion. The game also has side quests that feel impactful on the story, i was really interested at the thought of going through other people struggles as a war goes on, realising the chaos of war and what it could ensue. the one thing i wanted more of was more duels i found them very fun. In my opinion this game has been a great time and I've recommended it to all my friends and they are enjoying the game too.


i love it best game in 2020

Playstation games often focus a to much on the story and leave gameplay kind of "ok" . This is NOT the case with Ghost of Tsushima. The story is amazing, and the gameplay has lots of player agency and interesting approaches to each challenge. Sucker Punch certainly outdid themselves, and we have a solid GOTY contender.

The peak of cinematic games, even while being made by a western studio manages to capture the core of old style japanese cinematography, while having one of the most impressive landscapes in the entire generation of consoles and some of the best tracks the game comes in a nice package with everything a "japan-based game" should offer, cool swords, nice landscapes, classic music, homages to japanese culture and more.

I've noticed that a lot of people who review-bombed TLOU2 with perfect 10's have been going out of their way to give poor reviews for GoT so I'm just out here doing my part. Gud game tho

I've really enjoyed this game. It has been one of if not the most beautiful game i have ever played. The combat is fun and I haven't tired of it. I also really enjoy the stealth mechanics and animations are amazing. I am also glad there is no level gating and you can do things at your own pace. The only nitpick I may have for this game is I feel like Jin is too emotionless in most situations and that can make him a bit of a boring character when I feel the companion characters have much more interesting personalities.
I had The Way of Life on speakers while playing on my 60 4k inch tv in a sofa, i give it a 9.5 and i haven't given a game a score close to that since Kenshi was released, this game is is not a samurai game but The samurau game, there are no finer examples of such a game. 9.5 almost perfect but i can't give exclusive game a perfect score, if you greedily make shady deals then you just lose face as you disappoint all the other fans on the other platforms, **** Sony.
Absolutley brilliant. 15 plus hours in and i am really enjoying the story and gameplay. The lighting in this game resembles a piece of art it really does stand out. Who does not want to ride through scenic fields and picturesque landscapes. Of course it is not a hundred percent but nothing really should be as we with any sense know that that is the mythical score.




I enjoy the gameplay of Ghost of Tsushima, There are some bugs that need to be ironed out, but on a whole the gameplay itself can get a little old but I don't think that detracts from the game as a whole.....at least not yet. Graphics are amazingly beautiful but the progression of the story can be slow at times if you're like me and going for all trophies available. I've been anticipating this release for some time now and has met most of my initial critiques and I must presume that future updates will adreess the issues that I've previously mentioned. I do recommend at least giving this game a shot if you enjoy 3rd person games.
Очень красивая игра с отличным сюжетом, расказывает о культурах древней японии. задела с первых минут игры

I play quite a few games every year, it is however rare for me to be truly amazed by a game. Ghost of Tsushima however pulled this off for me. 9-9.5/10 // If you are a fan of Samurai media or feudal Japan this is a no brainer, buy it now. The great: - Graphics and Art style - wow just wow! this must be one of the most beautiful games i've ever played, thanking much to the amazing art style. Fans of samurai cinema will feel right at home. - Samurai combat - the samurai combat is deep, visceral and very precise. No bullet sponges or bad animations found in this game, its remarkably fluid. Samurai combat (especially on hard) can be really challenging early on and mid-game. - Sound - the main theme, background music, leaves rustling in the wind.. this has to be one of the best sounding games to date. - The setting and world lore - very well done, they recreated 1200's Japan very well despite using a cast of made-up characters based on the real events. You'd almost forget this was made by an American studio (primarily, Japan studios did assist) - The world - it feels decently sized, varied, packed with content and feels handcrafted, Ubisoft copy paste is (luckily) absent from this game. - Samurai duels and standoffs.. do i need to say more? - Some of the characters - Jito Shimura, Yuna, Norio, Take and Masako are awesome with huge amounts of character building. - Enemies - The enemies are unique, very well crafted and look like they wandered out of a history book. The main villain is very interesting, sadly you only really see him at the start and the end with some minor cutscenes in between. The Ok: - Story quality - the story is just that, an above average story for this kind of game, with some unique elements due to the unique setting in ancient japan. My personal opinion is that they start pushing you in the directen of the Ghost gameplay (Ninja/assasin) fairly early on, i'd prefer more/longer focus on the samurai path - the internal struggle (honourable vs dishonourable) feels a bit rushed at times. - Game length - somewhat on the short side if you just focus on the main quests, if you rush it you can complete it in less than 13 hours. However without rushing from point to point it will most likely take you between 20-25 hours. Doing all side stories (based on the secondary characters) and sidequests it can take up to 35-45 hours. a 100% run with all upgrades and collectibles can take you up to 50-60+ hours. - Ghost combat - average, just your usual Assasins Creed "press square to assinate" or "triangle to chain assasinate" if enemies are close together. Ghost tools can become quite OP if you spend the right points, taking the challenge out of the combat effectively cheesing late game encounters. Which is a shame! since the samurai combat is so challenging and rewarding to pull off on higher difficulties. - Jin the main character - As a Samurai he is told his entire life to supress emotions, and while they did depict this well + the struggle he has with being honorable, it makes for quite a muted one-dimensional character. i found it hard to really immerse myself into this character in chapter 1 and 2. Only in the last chapter Jins true feelings and emotions start showing and its great! - No NG+ (yet) once you do everything in the game, there is nothing left to do, most activities are not repeatable. You can easily start a new save game while keeping your old ones though. - No Minigames (Personal preference, don't take this to serious) - a minigame like Shogi (Japanese chess kinda), archery gallery (the ranges are in the game already), arena mode and/or repeatable/random generated 1 on 1 duels would have been great! The bad: - Some minor framerate issues in cities and some areas with a lot going on, both on PS4 Pro and Base models. it is never really bad, but it did take me out of it a few times when an arrea just started chugging along, sometimes a reboot fixed it even, so might be patchable.
One of the best games, not boring like assassin's, fighting very interesting, side quests is very good, if you like Japanese or Asian setting, very recommend!
A genuinely fun gaming experience that doesnt feel forced at any point. A good story of a man struggling with his code that his whole life has been dedicated to and his commitment to free his people. In a sentence, fun gameplay good story.



Beautiful looking game with music that sets the mood. The combat is fluid and fast and can be over in seconds for you or your foe . The photo mode is a wonderful feature and the landscapes add to the need to take pictures . I haven't enjoyed a game this much since Red dead 2.
A riveting story. Satisfyingly immersive combat. Camera options upon options. Incredible customization. Stunning open world. This is a great game. For me a masterpiece and without a doubt Game of the Year.
At first I thought this game was going to be an assassin's creed knock off. Boy way I wrong. Between the graphics and the combat it surpasses AC by miles. Would recommend to all my friends. Sucker punch needs to keep them coming.
A total masterpiece! Most of the time people forget that it is a work of fiction, because it brings you into this stunning world, which doesn't cease to amaze and make me say "it's... beautiful". A benchmark for how world design should be and the Japanese voice acting is, probably, one of the best ever made. Story wise, the game needs it's time to get to you. But once I went from the second to the last zone, I couldn't be bothered to do any side activity until I was done with the story; I didn't want to loose the momentum. The combat overall is good and satisfying, with lots of possibilities and variations. Just because it doesn't necessarily bring something new to the open world genre, it doesn't make it any less good. In fact, it is the most rewarding game in terms of exploration. The amount of items you get just from exploring is crazy. The game, overall, is one of a kind and I can't wait to play it again on PS5.

A very beautiful game. The nature is amazing. Sometimes you just want to sit and look at the scenery. I liked the game. I give a higher score because it seems to me that they underestimate the marks


This might be the most gripping story I've ever experienced in a game. Combine that with the most gorgeous scenery and combat that is easily accessible, yet hard to master and you get Ghost of Tsushima in all its glory. This is a MUST play game and one that will define this console generation.
Самая трогательная концовка, которую я когда либо видел. Сама игра на 8/10, но ниже 10 я поставить не могу. The most touching ending I've ever seen. The game itself is 8/10, but I can't put it below 10.

I know people want to pick every little this out about games now a days. Not enough facial expressions etc. if you ask me this game is one of the best looking games ever if not the best ever. The gameplay is extremely satisfying and rewarding. Harder than ASC but not as hard as Nioh or Sekiro. A really nice mix. The no HUD is something I thought I wouldn’t like but they implement interesting ways to get you to your destination. This game is AWESOME! I highly recommend it.


The sword combat is amazing and I loved mastering the different stances. The story is great and the characters seem genuine for 13th century Japan. I love this game and can't get enough.
The game is just amazing with its polished open-world, immersive story, stunning graphics, and biomes of Tsushima island. Definitely worth its price. It gave me a great, journey into the world of samurai, Japan, and beautiful nature of the Tsushima Island.
It's a true masterclass ghost of tsushima is the end for the ps4 and my god it got the epic ending that it deserved. Ghost has the best open world since the witcher 3 probably and its just as beautifull as fun. I just hqve to thank playstation for giving me these incredible what? Around seven years of masterpieces thank you sony you are the best.
A wonderful Game, without minimap, prominent placed questmarkers, towerclimps and with a lovely and immersive Storyline. Additional a deep RPG Skillsystem, detailed Charakters and very beautiful envirements.
There is the moment, it happens over and over again. You just samurai sworded your way through a whole bunch of Mongols. Some are archers. Some are throwing black powder grenades. Some are super buff dudes with wicked hammers. The blood is thick. You are victorious! For me, it has a nice exploration hook, a variety of fast combat offset by chilling with a fox. Like a more realistic BOTW meets being a Jedi way back when in Japan. For me, Japanese audio with English subtitles has ratcheted it up a notch. There is an economy of being a samurai...how can I get through this battle with minimal effort. This game provides a nice open platform to interject serious tactical thought amidst the battle. As an added bonus, you can pen haikus, and soak in hot tubs. If you're not doing that IRL then WTF?
Gripping story of honor set within an epic world containing awesome characters that you will care about. Makes me want to be a samurai when I grow up! Play the Japanese Cinematic, or better yet, at least try the Kurosawa mode, at least to check it out. If you don't know who Akira Kurosawa is, I hope this game motivates you to delve into the legend. Starting with Yuna and Jin, the characters only get better and better. With an enemy suitable to compare and contrast the honorable samurai. UI is beautiful. Gameplay is fun. The soundtrack is to die for. I just want to get out of work so bad to get home and resume playing!!!

This game is great don’t believe me go buy it and play it. It a story driven Samurai game. Great graphics it’s beautiful the world building is incredible. I love the idea of the balance between the code of the Samurai and the way of the ghost and his love for his family and his people. Great game please add this to your Collection.
Pretty much what I expected and wanted from an open world Samurai game at the end of a console generation. Only minor tidbits to complain about, wish it had original/synched japanese vocals and you could jump to/land on your horse.
Ghost of Tsushima is hands down my favorite game ever. Made it to the #1 in my list before the game even came out. When it did come out, it exceeded my expectation. The only little problem I have is the terrain animation but it is not noticeable if you choose to ignore it. Absolutely stunning visuals and biomes, a beautiful score, wonderful characters, and an amazing story, this game is spectacular. Fantastic work Sucker Punch. Game of the Year in my book.

Just straight up fun, and amazing. Everything in this game is done right. The load time is incredible for a world of this caliber. It took me 3 days to realize there are actually 3 playable regions, while I just cant get bored of the 1st region. This game deserves GOTY title.
Dejando de lado las tonterias que ponen los demás, lamiendo las balls a sony y a sucker puch, es un juego totalmente dedicado a las puestas en escenas de peleas de samurai, falla en el sigilo y en algunas animaciones, pero en donde debe brillar lo hace de forma magistral, exploración casi sin guia y deja que la libertad te guíe. Un gran juego para amantes de los samurai. Es como un assassins creed en japon sin MACROtranzacciones y sin barreras de nivel estupid4.


This is a great game to end the generation with... sucker punch created an outstanding world filled with exploration and surprisingly fun side missions. this is the first time that I did not get bored from an open world game.. looking forward to sucker punch's future projects !
Amazing and beautiful game that borrows elements of many other good games but has a style and a identity of its own. Good story so far, great combat, beautiful graphics, huge world, good characters. I'm loving it.


this game is perfection, must buy. just look at the audience score for The Last of Us 2 and then compare it to this game. Its soooo much better and would recommend it to anyone
haven't played a solid game in a while this game is awesome and the graphics the details and the story where you decide either be noble or be ruthless its awesome hope it gets a remastered for the ps5

I just platted the game and apart from one small bit, this game has been absolutely incredible. Even sidequests were interesting and made me want to play them. The combat was fluid and enjoyable. The photo mode is fantastic. And the overall story was very enjoyable. You could have peaceful moments writing haikus or being in a hot spring, challenge bandits and mongols to honorable standoffs, or be more like a ghost and be very stealthy. To me, this is so far my Game of the Year. For the negative point. The platforming parts could get a bit annoying, as sometimes Jin would decide that he rather fall to his death, than land on the platform right in front of him, or grab it. This doesn't stop this game from being fantastic though. I would highly recommend anybody play this game, if they're into Action RPGs
Extremely good game, the views the history, I can be sure that there was a lot of research of Japanese culture, the haiku's, the samurai duels, the songs, everything has been investigated with details. You will love this game his gameplay and the variety of options for fighting. You will have a complete experience if you care about details, and the side quests in the game, always pay attention to the dialogues the guidance system by being part of the scenario, I just don't know what else say about this game, everything it's great.


Ghost of Tsushima where do I start this game was AMAZING from the minute of 12:01 on July 17 to 21:47 on July 21 I was engulfed in the story the history the characters the outcomes everything about this game was a 11/10 this is the game we needed in these hard times I dare say the game to save 2020. The score is breathtaking especially on important moments I only have a tiny little problem with the game and that is the camera not a big deal only in battles does the camera sometimes go around the world because it’s not automatic like other games but overall this game made me happy sad feel like a badass and just genuinely good well done sucker punch see you at the game awards :)
This is simply an incredible game. The story is really fleshed out. The graphics are absolutely beautiful. The wide landscapes are a sight to behold. The amazing fight mechanics are a new twist to the open world genre. Being able to change seamlessly between stances in the middle of a large fight is just a joy to experience. It makes the battles incredibly fun to play. The score by Gamespot of 70 is criminal and the 83 aggregate score is a complete misrepresentation of the game. This is an absolute must play for any gamer. As a sidenote, it has to absolutely be played with the Japanese dialogue. The English dialogue lacks the passion and emotion. It just pales in comparison to the Japanese one.
Assassins Creed mixed with Breath of the Wild. Gorgeous world, mixed with becoming your own samurai batman. Only knock is collectibles can become a chore.
Astonishing gameplay with good graphics and loveable characters , the story is pretty good even though the lipsync is pretty bad, it didn't bother me at all while playing the game.
This game is one of the best specially for the people that are hoping to have an Assassins Creed game settings in Japan. Good job sucker punch hoping that you would make a sequel maybe Ghost of Iki? or Demon of Iki? since its the second island where mongols army tried to invade.
I enjoy playing this game, my GOTY. Just non-stop playing this game, side quest story are attractive and the gameplay is great. Enjoy the view as well.
Great story, great gameplay, absolutely realistic with Japan history and culture values. The only downside might be how graphic is not completely realistic, however, possibly they made it that way so it feels cartoonish or even a style that wasn't meant to be real.
You get what you expect from the trailer and as a open-world game. If you love spider-man, batman, assassin's creed and the witcher 3 you gonna love this game. Everything about this game is so great the music, scenery, the story is good all the time and some chapter is very great but don't expect to much in the story it's the standard samurai story but perfected it and it do the job very well and the best part is the combat. Combat in this game is so satisfying you really feel like a one man army samurai. At first you gonna feel weak but when you get the hang of the combat through playing you will become more badass and take down 10 men without getting hit is very satisfy. Combat also offer a lot of way to deal with the enemies you can go on full samurai and use only parry and dodge or stealthy way use all of your tools to finish the job but the best way for me is the mix between two of it and the combat will be refreshing and fun every time.
Хоть и игра не без технических и сюжетных недостатков, она очень интересна и это действительно приключение, а не многочасовая прокачка уровней и зачистка аванпостов. Изначально поставил 9, добавил еще бал авансом за новый режим, который скоро выйдет! Так держать SP!
Absolutely worth playing. I m playing on hard and it gives me similar challenge like Fromsoftware games. Not walk in a park if you play in hard mode. Stunning visuals and amazing gameplay. I would want to play as 4k 60 fps on ps5
I absolutely love Japan/ Anime/ and the history of the island. I did everything I could to keep from watching trailers and even watching gameplay because I wanted the experience to be genuine and not having an experience branching from all the gameplay that was out there. I can tell you, this game is amazing. The graphics are breathtaking and the environment/ atmosphere is almost tangible it sucks you into the realm in which you are playing, Gameplay and sword fighting is a lot of fun and has a slight technical aspect to it; however, it does not feel complicated or difficult. I enjoy the open world and all the tiny details and the sense of exploration you get from it. The story is also really good. I don't want to spoil to much about it, but I will say this game holds a lot of replay value to it. I only encourage everyone who can, please buy this game. You will not regret it! 10/10

it's hilarious that salty TLOU fans come to rate this game low at least most of them :D anyway i bought the game yesterday and play the hell out of it, it's like you're in a movie, visuals are great,combat is good,story is top notch, progression in game is delightful it's like a samurai learning his skills throughout the whole story, 10/10 for me
Excelente jogo com temática do Japão. Combate fluído e stealth muito divertido. A estória e bem desenvolvida e prende a atenção do jogador. Parabéns à empresa desenvolvedora.
Восхитительный визуал. Прекраснейшая Боёвка. Если и есть у этой игры минусы, то они не заметны.
An gorgeous, open world game with an excellent combat system. The katana combat is very satisfying and the new stances/abilities are added on in a steady way to allow for character growth.
Incredible, simply incredible! If this stunning game does not win game of the year then i dont know what will! One of the best games ever released on the PS4 platform! I was engrossed and engaged in this game from start to finish!! I highly reccommend it

Ghost of Tsushima is an entertaining open world game with a more grounded take on the samurai genre that hits its mark well. You really feel like a samurai and experience the adrenaline rush of slashing through enemies like a badass. The combat is fun and engaging with the only gripe being the lack of a lock on mode when fighting enemies. The graphics are a 10/10 for me, the open world feels alive and beautiful with its stunning vistas and it’s eye catching use of color really looks amazing, it’s photo mode is a great addition as well (seriously I spent hours taking pictures the game world its just that nice to look at),I found myself Immersed in its world and it’s great side content, the story although nothing new is told well with memorable characters and story moments to boot.
i like the game a lot. the historical figure is the one that makes me interest with the game,but im not have enough time to enjoy playing the game cause i need to meet my teacher on zoom everyday

Ghost of Tsushima was a wonderful game to play! Even the side missions had an actual story filled with emotions. The only downside is the game was glitchy sometimes. Combat seemed repetitive pretty early. The issue i saw with the armor was that I was usually tied stuck using the traveler armor more than anything else. And if I wasn’t using then I was using the ghost armor. I think that instead of going to grab 20 million different armor sets that they had perks that you can attach to your ghost armor. I would have rather seen that than having to tie between being stealthy and “wearing traveling armor”. Also when I wanted to be stealthy it seemed difficult. It wasn’t stealthy like assassins creed stealthy which kinda sucked. Instead of having a person rotate around their territory they would stay in one spot for a bit. I didn’t like that tbh. But the story is amazing. I chose the “bad” ending which I think was more emotional than the “good” ending. I rarely ever cry but this game got me when I chose the bad ending. Even during some of the side quests got me. And I was either emotional distraught over a character or sympathized with them. Story:10/10 Gameplay/fighting: 8/10 Mechanics and “perk tree”: 5/10 Stealth tactics 5/10
Whew, finally got the Platinum of the game! All I can say is I got a fun ride and found the game to be the perfect swan song for the PS4. As to the scores: *Story - 8/10 - The story of the game did not do anything new or out of ordinary. It is a story between maintaining your samurai honor but sacrificing everyone or relinquishing the same and doing what must be done to do what you think is right and for the best of the many. However, although a simple story it was presented in a very thematic way of highlighting japanese culture and samurai code. Overall, I always prefer this manner of storytelling than trying to do too much or original. *Gameplay - 9/10 (10/10 for the melee combat, 8/10 for the stealth combat) - As shown above, this section was considered on two aspects: It's melee and stealth. The melee gameplay is great! The best melee sword combat for me in all the games I played. It is smooth, realistic and boasts some really cool moves you will never tire of using anytime you challenge a mongol through stand-offs. On the other hand, the stealth is likewise good but feels very familiar. However, it did show something new and awesome like the assassination kill streak and how your image as a ghost literally terrorizes your enemies and makes them retreat in fear of you. It feels awesome and really feels like you are indeed making an impact in the game world not only story-wise but gameplay-wise too. *Graphics - 10/10 - This game will show you one of the most beautiful and colorful scenery and landcapes you will find in an open world. One of the prettiest aspects in this is how the grasses moves with the flow of the wind. The color of the sunset and sunrise are very artistic and likewise pretty. Moreover, it really feels like an actual japanese films in terms of presentation and effects. It is also an added feature that the kurosawa or black and white mode will really make this game an actual old school japanese samurai film. *Sound - 9/10 - Its a great added feature that a japanese dub was introduced in the game. Moreover, the sound, music and voice acting whether japanese and english are on point (I much prefer the japanese VA though to make the game immersive). The only negative thing I found in this aspect is how the mouth movements does not match the japanese dub. Although I did not realize this until I was in the middle of the game. Total: 9/10 - This is a really great game which will be remembered amongst the best open world game of all time and also is one of its most beatiful and artistic ones. The melee combat is also one of its strong points and should be a focus of the devs to further improve if this will be a franchise. A perfect ending exclusive for the PS4 and likewise a great beginning for the upcoming PS5. Congrats Suckerpunch Productions for this masterpiece of a game!

The game is one of the best I've ever played. It's a game that actually deserves the high score. The exploration is one of the best things in this game
Amazing game! Beautiful and fun open-world, gorgeous combat, lovely soundtrack. Thanks Sucker Punch and Sony!

Потрясающая по атмосфере игра, интересно исследовать мир! Боёвка неплохая и сюжет ничего, в итоге получаем один из лучших ассасинов за последние 10 лет) серьезно, лучше только второй ассасин!
at first i over estimate suckerpunch games because i dont really like the other games they released, but after seeing the youtubers gameplay footage and i impressed over the openworld concept, (waiting for GTA6 is taking too long ) i ordered, and thank god i do that, the landscape is wonderful, always thinking to get the best portrait mode when available, it's just that great. And the sells don't lie either. already sold out and if available the price is marked up over the normal price.
Это Assassin's Сreed здорового человека! Отличные квесты, хорошие диалоги , интересная боёвка и прокачка. Очень красивый мир, который изучаешь с огромным удовольствием. Прошел пропылесосив все на 100%.

This is just an amazing game. An epic journey from start to finish with great gameplay and good story / characters. The SP team did an amazing job and truly, I believe this game deserves the GOTY 2020. True, it has some flaws but they are just minimal. I wish for an upcoming update with New Game+ in the feature.
I’ve been waiting forever for a game like this! This game is simply amazing and I can’t stop playing it. The story is very good and you get attached to certain characters very easily. I actually shed a tear after the great escape cutscene because it felt like I had just lost my best friend. Never thought I would get attached to a horse in a game. Overall, the armor and weapon customizations are very cool, especially seeing how your armor changes its look after each upgrade. The combat is extremely fun. I wish I could give this game a 20/10 because it’s just that good.
This game is pure GOTY content . From the World to characters to Gameplay loop everything is just perfect . Highly recommended this game . Worth every single buck .
Iits so crazy to me how a lot open world games don't play like this. the combat is fluid, beautiful and satisfying. This game had me stopping and just taking the environments. sometimes I would just play the flute and walk around, something I have never done with any other game. I really hope other open world games steal the way, this game shows you where to go. via wind. its so immersive to just follow the wind. I have never really thought about this before but map markers constantly remind you that your in a game. The combat is simple enough anyone can enjoy it but if you master it. You truly are untouchable. one thing i thought to my self while playing assassins creed was why do they keep sending mercenaries. I've killed like a million of them surely they would just refuse come if they know they're gonna die. In ghosts of tsushima as your legend grows people will just run away from you and I love that. its something that should be in all rpgs ghosts of tsushima is game where you really do feel like a samurai and I really fell in love with that
[Portuguese Review (PT/BR)] Uma experiência incrível. O combate de Ghost of Tsushima é insano e perfeito em todos os sentidos! A exploração e objetivos secundários no mundo aberto deixa a experiência de todos os jogadores muito mais imersiva. O conteúdo da história (enredo) cumpre seu papel do início ao fim.

Definitely the game of the year. I love it and from my perspective it is second after HZD in PS exclusives. I love the new world not some refreshed idea. It is the kind of super addictive game you go to sleep at 4AM because of it :)



Gorgeous, fun and engaging combat, a map that does not get cluttered with busy work and a very clear hud. And the wind mechanic telling you where to go is simply amazing and works really well. It's a samurai game that makes u feel like one. This one one of the games, that when u stop playing and go do something else, stays in the back of your mind because you want to play some more of it. On par with Horizon zero dawn, GoW.... it's THAT good. Do yourself a favor and don't miss out on it. This is a 100% must have.
This game respect so much japanese culture, this is impressive. Combat system is really dense and interesting. Panorama are awesome. Game design is really good. This game is really art. Sad note is the story that is a little too light. Side characters are well writen and secondary quest are good. Game can be a little boring by moments (on the open world)

This game gets 7 points on beauty alone, haven't witnessed a more beautiful game ever. The way they keep you immersed in the scenery with no HUD is great as well. I thought the wind guide might be problematic but so far so good and I actually enjoy the subtlety better I find myself exploring the beautiful world more. The story so far is amazing as well, will update review if the story changes my rating. Combat system isn't without flaw, it could be a bit better but all in all it's easy to pick up and had enough complexity to keep me interested. I knock it down a point bc no game is perfect and there are some flaws like clipping that can be a bit distracting at times I've also had issue with audio not being in sync but just minor things. All in all so far my opinion is ghost of Tsushima should be winning game of the year.
Overall: Absolutely fantastic game that is stunning looking, has a nice flowing combat system and keeps you having fun for a long time while pushing the limits of the ps4. Story: The story is very well written and makes you feel a lot of emotions throughout the game, it is somewhat based in reality but being a game they take a lot of creative freedom as well which is perfectly fine and simply makes it a really nice experience to play. Gameplay: They really did an amazing job with the gameplay, you are free to explore a beautifully crafted and vast world that keeps you busy for a long time, there's plenty of side-quests and things to discover that has nothing to do with the story but is always a treat to find. The combat works amazingly well and feels great to play as your slash through your enemies. The game also has great voice acting for both English and Japanese, though the japanese voices are not lip synced it still sounds great. There are a few bugs that can occur, but this is to be expected in a big open-world game and doesn't negatively affect the game as a whole. Overall an amazing experience and one of the best games of 2020 if not the best.


this game is pure Samurai masterpeace 10/10, just kidding, I made this review so this was higher, because the last of us 2 people are stupid, I am not using metacritic, but this is fair review from me
Un juego que te mete de lleno en el mundo que quiere enseñar, gracias a una ambientación muy bien conseguida, con unos combates de lo mas espectaculares y divertidos. Largo, bonito y divertido son tres palabras que definen este título.
The only reason i can't give this a 10/10 is because it isn't a "Perfect" game. There are glitches and problems. Despite all of that, this game is amazing, I love every last bit of it so far, and will continue to do so. Cyberpunk 2077 has a strong contender for best game.
This game is really amazing and really close to perfecting in all you can do in game, the story flows with the character and the others stories bound together with the main act. GOTY


Amazing piece of art. The graphics, animation and sound design are 5 star. I often found myself just walking slowly through the woods taking in natures beauty. I was grateful that no pc agenda forced down your throat. Let's hope they do a follow up focused in the Scottish highlands.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best exclusives to come out on the PS4 this year and can comfortably sit in the same pedigree as Spiderman and God of War. Overall here are my observations: Pros: -Incredible art direction and presentation, the graphics are just phenomenal -The use of a minimum UI and the guiding wind is a great system, something other games like Assassins creed Oddessey can learn from. - The gameplay is fun, addictive, easy to pick up, and makes you feel like a total bad-ass. - This is a game that is optimized to the T, hence the incredibly fast load times. - This game truly respects and loves the source material and Japanese culture, the attention to detail is phenomenal. Cons - - The open world is vast and given all the things that are there to collect, it can sometimes get repetitive. - Some of the filler cutscenes lack the finesse and detailed voice acting. - The Japanese dub is sometimes out of sync with the characters and can feel awkward.
I have not played a game this religiously since Persona 5, and bloodborne, absolute little belter of a game, if 40+ hours of hackin and slashin is what you call little my only gripe is the camera controls they can be a real pain in the arse but its a small issue when the content is so stella
The story is nothing amazing but at least it's refreshing because not many games are about feudal japan and such. Very good open world which has a lot of color and contrast. The gameplay is super addictive and fun, the stances are a cool concept and are very well executed. The stand offs are a cool way to let you decide if you want to fight the leaders in the villages or if you just want to one shot them. Kunais are a bit op but i can live with that. Boss fights are entertaining and fair. The side quests are surprisingly fun. Graphics are very good. The in-game fashion is fun to use. And the fast travel system is well-made. Running on your horse is quite relaxing. Has some glitches here and there but they don't hurt the gameplay and it's funny when they occur. The AI may not be the smartest but at least it isn't as blind as in other games. Game's verticality is great, climbing and parkour are fun but the game doesn't force you to do them. You can use the terrain in your advantage and do some cool moves.
Ghost of Tsushima is a game that will cause a problem for you: wanting to keep taking pictures of everything that appears on the screen is so beautiful that the game is. The game begins with a story that seems basic, in a way, which is the Mongol army's attack on the island of Tsushima in Japan, but over time it gets more and more complex and with a fear of becoming tragic. A delicious game, great gameplay, excellent fun. But the icing on the cake is the graphic quality and the audio effects. Ghost of Tsushima is my candidate for GOTY.
It's a good game. With a lot of potential. It does have the same old boring open-world things to do...But The story, setting and so on does make up for it.
So far my game of the year. I didnt think I would like this as much as I did. One of the most engaging open worlds since BOTW and a addicting combat system that turned out much deeper than I expected. On top of that the story is really good and the side quests are top notch(not just fetch quests), like a lot of open worlds these days. Sucker punch just leveled up in my opinion, its clear they put everything into this game and there passion shows.
Excellent game in terms of graphics, gameplay, combat and story. Sucker punch is on another level doing this beautiful game. What a nice game to end this generation.
I love this game it’s easy in my top 5 games of all time! The world is beautiful the gameplay is awesome it’s not perfect but it doesn’t have be. I’m currently on my 3rd play though I’ve completed on medium & hard difficulty now currently on lethal difficulty I’m dying a lot but I’m getting better every time. Tip press O while low on stamina to recoup stamina Immediately and roll up hill I’m pretty sure it’s faster. This is a game I will definitely be playing for years to come I just hope they add more cosmetic items and dlc in the future.
This game is absolutely amazing! The style, soundtrack, story, and characters are all great. :) The gameplay and side quests are wonderful, I actually wanted to do everything and go everywhere. :D Which I did, this is only 1 of 2 games that I've finished with a platinum.

Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful game with graphics to rival the Witcher 3, Ive spent hours just in the photo mode alone so far. The gameplay is split up into okay and great the former being the stealth and ladder being the combat, stealth isn’t bad but A.I are kinda dumb and it’s just not as fun as say old assassins creed or dishonored but it gets the job done I guess, the combat on the other hand is amazing and I think it might be my favorite Melee combat system Since the Witcher 3 with all the different fighting styles and the standoffs it makes you feel like a badass, it dose take a bit of skill to play though but I like that.igame and
An incredible experience! Some of the finest sword play to date. And I can't compliment the art direction and overall polish enough. A technical masterpiece. Sucker Punch has managed to make open-world filler stuff fun again–like seeking out collectibles and tackling enemy camps– because there's an emphasis on quality over quantity. Replay value is really high, and this is unquestionably the developer's finest work to date.

Gameplay is lovely once you get a few hours in! Not to mention the game is just overtly beautiful, won’t take you long to realise then, maybe a bit of polish left but no game breaking bugs

I am about 15 hours in and having an blast! I was worried coming in about some open world fatigue. I really didn’t feel like doing a bunch of pointless real life chores and running errands for people like in RDR2 and so many other open world games, once you have kids, running errands for video game characters just seems dumb. But I can say nothing in this game feels like a chore. Everything is fun! I highly suggest playing on Hard! Playing on any lower settings you really lose the tension of each encounter.
ghost of Tsushima is one of the most beutifull game i have ever played . i have never been the guy who takes pictuers and stuff like that in games , but in this game i stop every 5 min to take pictuers. it almost like u are there in person , and the game play is so polished , when u fast travell the loading is almost non existing maximum 15 seconds , somtimes its instant .recomend whole heartedly. nextgen. stuff
A masterpiece, fighting is similar to games like the Arkham series, the characters are likeable and the story well written. It has some of the more positive elements of the far cry series in it. Visual it is breathing. An absolute must if you wanna live out your samurai fantasies
It's just strange to finally enjoying a game where is not pay to win or loot boxes, or time savers through donations. And no feministic messages ruining the history that has been lived before. Just solid game ment for gamers. I'm glad that some studios still knows who their main gamer base are. And if you have ps4 this is must buy game!
A beautiful and engaging game for my part. Love both the main and side stories that just made me want to follow it all to the end. No big innovation in gameplay but when most other things are this good I don't feel this as a big negative. Encountered some bugs but no biggie when everything else is this beautiful. Dialogue is a bit slow. This game brings hours of relaxing gaming for those who enjoy game speed not cranked up to the highest level.
At first i felt hesitant in buying this guy for i am burned out on open world fill the dots type game play. But boy was i wrong when it comes to this game. Sucker punch managed to make some fresh within the formula. I was hooked and blown away from the start. I had a great time playing through the game and loved the story. Got me tearin' up quite a few times. Combat while simple, its very fun...and thats what matters to me. Graphics are simply amazing in its art style...so many environment variations which i did not expect. Loved every different zone. music, sound, voice simply awesome...thank you sucker punch for this beautiful game. A beautiful work of art which elevates true values which should be praised.
Game hay lắm. Cảnh đẹp, nhạc hay, nhiều khi side quest còn hay hơn main quest. Nhiệm vụ không bị lê thê. Mỗi lần mởi 1 đền cáo, miếu trên núi hay chỗ thơ haiku đều là địa điểm chụp ảnh check in cả. Tha hồ đi khoe ảnh đẹp. Đổi khi chuyển qua chế độ đen trắng lại tạo cảm giác như mấy phim samurai thập niên 60-70. Phải nói tuy còn vài hại sạn nhưng sony làm những cái khác quá tốt. Điểm trừ: AI còn hơi ngu skill ghost có vẻ hơi mạnh quá



beautiful environment with great audio and sound track. although its cutscenes are pretty basics its gameplay and environment is breathtaking. great experience for me.

After competing the game and getting the platinum, I thoroughly enjoyed the game and its world. The world, characters, music and combat was highly enjoyable. I do wish that there was more diversity in the quests as they all seemed to be the same kind of objective. Even though the story for all the side quests were interesting none really stood out from the other. The main campaign was interesting and progression and leveling up was fun and well realized. As the game was very serious it would have been nice for some side quests to lighten up a little and a few side actives could have been more fun. Overall very good game and I would recommend for any lover of open world,rpg or anyone interesting in Samurai culture. Also reading the Mongol artifacts were very interesting and educational, I usually don't enjoy too much reading of collectibles and tend to just collect for the trophy but get bored reading after a while, but this was very well done.

This is one of the most fun games I ever played. The open world is stunning and exploring it is fun. The story is good, but nothing special, which is fine. The combat is great, the stealth however is nothing special and sometimes you can miss a kill because the game decides to just bug out on you. If you plan to get this game I would make sure that you enjoy the games that really push you to explore. If you just blow throught this game you might see it as just another by the book Ubisoft style open world game, if you decide to explore however, you will see that this game is much more than that. Ironically enought, this game feels more like Assassin's Creed than the latest Assassin's Creed game. You might not enjoy this game if you don't like exploring the world. There are also some repetitivness issues. A large portion of the quests are just clearing out forts or tracking enemies to a camp. I have finished every sidequest in the game and while there are outliers, most of them follow the same structure. Then there are also the Fox Dens which are fun the first few times, but after a while they just get more iratating that anything. This game also has pointless collectibles which I am not a fan of. However, even through these issues the game is still amazing and a joy to play. This is an example of what happens when a developer tries to make a game that is fun above all else.
I'm in love. If there's any complaints I have to put, it's that they didn't really do any lip sync for the Japanese sub. But other then that, this deserve game of the year.

Truly the dream Samurai game we have been waiting for! The gameplay is amazing I usually don't do much side quest but this game really interested me in doing a lot of them! The side characters in this quests are very interesting and sometimes they point out locations of enemy camps. The music in this game is amazing! I fell in love with it. The story is also beautifully done by Sucker Punch a lot of interesting characters and emotional scenes too! Overall, I loved this game and I never had this much fun in playing for years! Thank you Sucker Punch!


It's just one of those games that gives you so many different ways to play, and has plenty of fast travel. I typically hate open world games since they feel so big and empty. Whether a yellow bird pops out of no where to let you know where something good is or rescuing peasants it felt like the game always had something for me to do without feeling like it's impossible to do it all. This game is just gorgeous and everything feels so interactive. Of courses there's some clipping, stuttering occasionally, and other crap but I expect that in every game I play. I mean how the hell do the developers expect someone to make Jin jumping off some stairs while mashing the guard button and make an animation for that? I had no major problems playing this game and I'm still enjoying myself right now.
Game of the year imo. I'm like 30 hours in and just starting act 2. So much stuff to do in the open world, the art style is amazing, and the combat is incredibly fun. I find myself avoiding playing stealth just to engage in the samurai combat.
I loved this game. Easily my game of the year. I beat the game and I can’t stop playing. This gave me the same feelings I got while playing Breath of the Wild for the first time. 100% recommend.
What I thought would be just another repetitive open world cut-and-paste slog turned out to be an amazingly rich experience with a solid, robust combat system, a compelling story, and absolutely stunning visuals. The world is massive without being overwhelming, and the game doesn't fall victim to the usual cliche of scouting a viewpoint and then vomiting a bunch of icons onto the map. Instead, the map gradually un-fogs only places you've been, which encourages exploration in a more natural manner. Unlike many other action RPGs, this one really provides a meaningful choice for how you want to build your character, at least to start with. My first playthrough I'm focusing on the Samurai skill trees, but I'll do a stealth build for the next one. Or maybe not, since the combat is so satisfying. Seriously, the standoffs never get old. There are really not enough good things to say about Ghosts. Sony picked a hell of a game to wrap up this console generation.
Never had so much fun with a game like this one. Story is great and fun, aswell as the side missions and the mythic quests. The game play is amazing and really enjoyable and the graphics are stunning. Youll see yourself doing many Screenshots.
This game really surpassed my expectations. Is just so fun to play. The combats get more interesting as the game progresses instead of getting repetitive, the level design and the graphics are just so beautiful even if not played in ultra modern tv set. The Kurosawa filter really turns it into a classic Japanese cinema experience. I don´t rate it 10 just cause I found a couple of glitches but they really are totally forgivable since the whole experience is just wonderful. Totally recommend Ghost of Tsushima.

After having played through the game and finished it once, earning the platinum trophy for it then collecting everything you can collect. This is one of the best games I have every played yes it has some small problems that I have noticed like when I swap my stance to wind stance something I have to roll so I can then parry because it just won’t let me parry. Some other minor problems like clothing clipping through each other very noticeable with the clan Samurai armor on horse back.
Absolutely amazing. Stunning visuals and an amazing story. Must play. Only thing I gotta rip on is the camera. But otherwise an absolute banger of a game.
I have well over 40 hrs in the game and I love it, I been playing since midnight launch and only take a break to sleep. My friends and I are playing this beautiful game and enjoying all its wonders, I will platinum this game on PS4 and will replay it on harder difficulty after I'm first playthrough!

Ghost of Tsushima is a love letter to those old Japanese samurai movies. The game looks absolutely gorgeous and it is very immersive. The environment are beautiful and the attention to detail is impressive. The story is very good and the game often encourages the players to explore. Sucker Punch made a great game and the best part is that they took their time to respectfully depict Japanese culture. The game can get a bit repetitive, but after 20+ hours of playing I am still in awe and happy to continue exploring the world of GoT. PS. The photo mode in this game is absolutely amazing. Easily the best and most robust photo mode I've seen in any game.
This game is truly a masterpiece. The atmosphere makes me feel like I completely disconnect from real life whenever I start the game. The colors, sounds and music are amazing.
Amazing combat and the most gorgeous open world to date. Side missions can feel repetitive but they can be enjoyable for the simple fact that the combat is so damn good


I should start this off by stating I've put in 65 hours and acquired the platinum trophy for this game, as I feel as though my views should be based on the entirety of the game and not the first 3 hours, with that said lets get into it. Sucker Punch's new IP Ghost of Tsushima is one of the most enjoyable PS exclusives I have played since Persona 5, along with God of War and Spider-Man I feel these games have been the best exclusives Sony has offered. Although Ghost of Tsushima is a brilliant game it isn't without it's faults, so I'll cover the good and bad parts. Let's start with the main focus point, the visuals. Graphically not one of the best as I do feel as though there are games out there better, but as far as PS4 games go I have yet to see a game visually better... The mix of the contrast and colours is sublime, it really makes the scenery beautifully immersive and playing on a 4K OLED TV in Dolby Vision HDR really increases the potential of the game. One thing that lets it down is the awful lip syncing to the Japanese audio, I feel as though even in English the lip sync would look bad. The sound is outstanding, to the point where I had to use my soundbar as I felt TV speakers just wasn't hitting it well enough. The soundtrack is brilliant, the voice acting (played with Japanese audio) is spot on and the subtle sounds of archers shouting allowing you to know which direction enemies are firing from helps so much. Gameplay is so enjoyable, there's nothing innovative but everything it does, it does really well. The balance of stealth and samurai is done really well and you don't feel forced to do either so it's really on your personal preference. The stealth could have been polished a bit more, it's not bad but it is very basic and doesn't have much range and flavour. The final aspect I want to hit is the story, now as it starts there's not much emotion in the characters other than serious, every character is serious in this game and it's expected considering it's during a war but as you progress through the Story the emotions between characters become more in depth and you gain more of an appreciation for them. By the third and final act I was really invested in each characters story (side missions) and I grew quite attached to some of the none essential characters even becoming quite emotionally attached to them. As things go this year Ghost of Tsushima is probably my favourite game so far, that's saying something as well considering Ori and The Will of the Wisp was an incredibly good game,
This is not a Assassin creed wanna be, it is a masterpiece game This is a game that makes you feel connected with the story, with the game world and more understand why japanese people always talk about honor before anything else This is a game with a very good soundtrack which makes you feel you are the samurai or we could say “the ghost” And what an ending, especially when jin said to his uncle “i will” Sucker Punch, you nailed it Bravo



This game is truly gorgeous. I knew it was going to be good, but I didn't know it would be this good. The immersive experience that this game offers makes it easy to get lost in the story and scenery. This is the best game of the year so far!


This 10 out of 10 rating right here is not because the game has been perfect or else. Its because it worths every single penny you invest on it. Combat and gameplay wise is awesome and if you get the right set (A ps4 and a good TV) thw graphics turns really breatjtaking. Hell, not even in most of PC games you would find something like this. So please dont believe these byased the last of us fans and go and buy it NOW.
The Game have some issues but in general it could be consider one the best games of the generation.

This game is an absoloute blast to play ! So much fun. Well worth the $60. The voice acting is great in both english and japanese. The world is so dam gorgeous and colorful.
Sucker Punch has truly outdone themselves and set the bar higher for open world games and the way they approach exploration. Through the use of the guided wind mechanic, I never felt lost and at the same time never felt like the game was holding my hand to my next destination. I normally rush through the main story and then replay a second time, taking my time to see everything. However, this is the first open world game that I truly became lost in. I explored every inch of the map and enjoyed the deep "side" quests which serve to flesh out the world and characters. The combat is fast and fluid. Coming from Nioh and Sekiro, I still found the game to be incredibly challenging at times, while never having the **** one hit kills that Nioh can have. The combat evolved constantly and 50 hours in, I still don't feel even slightly bored. I hope they will add challenge rooms or something similar to the Arkham Games. The combat is a mix of the old Assassins Creed games, a bit of Arkham games, Shadow of War and a bit of Spiderman PS4 in the way that you are allowed and even encouraged to experiment in your approach. No two fights will ever feel the same. You already know the graphics are stunning, the game is lengthy and deep. The map is the most diverse I have ever seen in a game. If you love revenge stories, you will definitely be satisfied and I eventually grew to feel as though I was Jin Sakai, the Ghost.Go out and get this game. You will not be dissapointed.

This game is everything I wanted and more. Stunning art design, fantastic music score, simple yet complex fighting structures. The culture, history and beautiful open world environment is enough to buy this game and make it an instant classic. Add quality storytelling and hours of gameplay, will make this a highlight for this generation of console gaming.
Ghost of Tsushima encapsulates the culture and tradition with a fully realized and meticulously detailed environment. Even in an open-world setting, the side quests or stories help enrich the world with its emotionally resonant stories which effectively displays a full spectrum of emotion and lore. The main storyline, cascading between flashbacks and the present, connects players to the moral ambiguities of Jin Sakai's dilemma, allowing them to sympathize with him and carry the burdens that the character is weighted with. This is a game of picturesque imagery in motion that captivates with its gorgeous visuals and gripping story, created with intricate detail and reverence to the Japanese culture. Ghost of Tsushima is a beautiful masterpiece.
Excellent game. I've always been a fan of Sucker Punch games since the Sly Cooper days. And the first Infamous is still one of my all-time favorite games. I read somewhere that Ghost of Tsushima is the real swan song of the PS4 because development actually began at the beginning of this generation. I'd assume right after Infamous: Second Son which was almost a launch window game. If that's true, it definitely shows. The graphics are realistic while maintaining it's own unique style. They are superb. Sucker Punch has proven to have a true mastery of the hardware. The same goes for the action and combat mechanics. The slower, more deliberate sword fighting remind me a bit of Bushido Blade and maybe even the earlier Assassin's Creed games. It does almost have an Assassin's Creed: Japan vibe going for it as well. I'm also a big fan of a minimized HUD and it's innovative navigation system. If I do have one gripe, it's that I'm a little burnt out on the open world, horseback riding, mark objective and clear out, cookie cutter template, but this does enough different to feel fresh and keep you playing. Although the game isn't perfect, it's definitely up there with God of War or maybe even Red Dead 2.
Great to see a game that has innovation. The story starts a bit slow but the story is great. The open world makes the game has a lot of exploration and many activities to do. The graphics and visuals are stunning! Sound is amazing. Combat can be a learning curve to get used to the different mechanics of the game. Once mastered it is very rewarding! A few bugs in the game but doesn’t stop giving a excellent experiences throughout the whole game. Wel done suckerpunch
Visually the game is stunning and the story cutscenes get you hyped for the game, however... The camera will put objects, directly behind your character, right in front of the camera, blinding your view of combat which makes any chance of you landing a successful “perfect parry” impossible. Combat is also, at the beginning, throughout the intro missions too difficult for a enjoyable GAMEPLAY experience for me to see this game anything above a 7, given this is a game. The controls should be the most fine tuned optimization but game companies seem to get away with people just being fine with having to spend a ton of time learning instead of making controls that are easy. Secondly is the upgrade system where you have to get skill points to choose your own upgrade... if you choose wrong, combat becomes absurdly difficult at the beginning with multiple enemy types who’s AI is set to swarm you. There is a pay to win bonus in the Special Edition that helps this skill tree, error trap, situation which is they give you a free extra skill point for paying $10 extra dollars. I’d have zero buyers remorse if combat scaled better like in Sony’s other exclusives like, say, Spiderman. I just want a fun and lengthy Samurai Experience, not a game where I have to practice for a few hours before the combat feels like I’m really an awesome Samurai with decades of training... if they wanted us to feel week, start the game with us as a teenager... Reviews led me to wishing I had waited until Black Friday, just wait on this unless you’re mad desperate.

I've been playing this game constantly for days now and it is pure joy to play. The atmosphere, the world design, the combat, the music, the story and characters, it is all simply amazing. I haven't had this much fun with a game in a while. A dream come true for any samurai enthusiast, and even if you don't particularly like samurai it is still a spectacular open world action game worth playing. Innovative open world mechanics alone set it apart from and above anything currently on the market. A perfect score from me.
What stands Ghost of Tsushima apart from its overcrowded open world genre is its engaging multi-stance katana combat system, epic narrative and the best console graphics I've ever seen along with an additional classic samurai film aesthetic option. If you've always wanted "Assassin's Creed in Feudal Japan", look no further. For me, it's more than just that. Aside from a few technical issues that interrupted the flow, I don't think I've ever felt more engrossed in a video game setting before. 9.5 if Metacritic will ever let users use decimals.
This game has gorgeous graphics, fun gameplay, and an engaging story. If you are into samurais/ninjas (Ghost), beautiful vistas, cool combat, and a compelling storytelling, this game is for you. This new IP is a welcome addition to Sony’s first party games.
This game is the bets looking game of the Playstation 4. The open world is crafted beautifully and lets you do what you want when you want. It has many things to offer and the combat system is very good as well.
Думал выйдет очередной шлак аля убейсофт, но то что вышло однозначно стоило ожидания, возможно лучшая игра за последние несколько лет. Однозначно советую.
Beautiful game, some of the landscapes are just amazing to look at in-game. Not sure what engine they used but the visual setting lends itself to an enjoyable cinematic experience, without relying too heavily on cut scenes to provide this ccontent. The intros to the boss battles are reused, I see what they're intent was, do know that the actual boss battles are different based on the fighting style of the boss. The reused boss intros- is kind of a bummer with the game providing so much creative content, it's each to spot when something is repurposed. You will have to farm for materials like supplies, which getting anywhere from 1 to 24ish, when you need hundreds, this process can get old. Love the historical background this game is based upon, is amazing to feel like you have been transported to the 13th century. Overall, anyone who knows anything about gaming will know this game is in contention for game of the year.
Easily Goty this year, maybe Cuberpunk will top it. Ghost of Tsushima is a great game and has no flaws whatsoever. Story, gameplay and graphics. 10/10.
Eu havia baixando um pouco as expectativas com os primeiros reviews dos críticos, mas agora, jogando ele vem superando minha expectativas a cada hora explorando a ilha de Tsushima. Nunca me senti tanto um samurai como a experiência de Ghost of Tsushima. Apesar de mecânicas já trabalhadas em jogos de mundo aberto, a sutileza do uso do ecosistema como guia para exploração torna tudo mais natural e imersivo. Até aqui, ainda não fechei o jogo, não quero que acabe esta jornada e tem sido prazeiroso descobrir contos, eventos e histórias deste momento tenso da história do Japão. Estou realmente surpreso com o nível de qualidade e fotografia do game, me deixando com um gostinho do que será a Next Gen.


An absolutely beautiful Samurai Cinema role playing game. Anytime I sit down and play it I am sucked into the world in a way I have not experienced since playing the original assassin's creed. Truly the best open world crawler I've ever played. The combat is brutal and enjoyable but accessible. Play in HDR if at all possible the game is breathtaking. The only thing holding this back from a 10 is some minor occasional open world jank which is not unexpected but it is annoying to see weird disconnected animations particularly when traversing uneven terrain is climbing rocks or houses, that detract from an otherwise flawless world and aesthetic.
I don't believe in a 10 game. Lets be honest. there are a couple of quarks. I really enjoyed the game play. I wish there was a lock-on type control. now for the good. I love the wind as a guide. it keeps the hud away. I love the story, and the characters. I enjoyed this game so much and you will too.

Amazing game, love the graphics, the story and Japanese audio is amazing, brings back the feelings of a good anime. I hope it will come to PC, there is some fps problems, but overall amazing game.



I give this game a ten because i think a 9 is too low but probably a 9.5, I haven't enjoyed a game this much in years. I haven't even Beat this game yet, but there is so much to do and every fight can feel different. It feels like AC meets Spider-man and it is terrific. My only problem with the game is some controls feel clunky and the camera view sometimes sucks. I truly love this game there are Plot twists so far the way the story delivers the story is fantastic. The visuals of this game are gorgeous. sneaking around for me is more fun than going Full Samurai, but going full Samurai makes you feel all bad ass. I highly Recommend this game. The Critics are crazy giving this a low 8. they probably thought the game was too difficult for them playing on easy.
Gorgeous game even in 1080, sekiro and assasins creeds lovechild. No minimap or HUD to guide you, mark a spot on the map and follow the wind to reach your destination. Definitely best game of the year so far.
This is dare I say the most beautiful game ever made. While I personally think its a 9/10, I gave it a 10 due to all the stupid spammers that gave it zero for no reason. This is in all parts, a really good game. I think the characters are great and the story is very well done especially in how it interconnects with the open world. I think the landscape and gameplay are phenomenal, and this is for sure one of the best games ever made in the PS4. The only critique I have is that the face graphics leave a bit to be desired, and that the cinematic portions are a literal downgrade to the actual gameplay (which looks great) which is very strange. I think Ghost of Tsushima has some of the best side quests out there, and has done a great job filling up the map without making you feel exhausted like Assassins Creed games tend to do. Sucker Punch should be proud of their achievement, and with all the backlash over Last of Us Part 2, I wouldn't surprised if most reviewers hail Ghost of Tsushima as the greatest PS4 exclusive of 2020. Ghost of Tsushima is truly a fitting end to the phenomenal mainstream series of PS4 exclusives that we have been spolied with this gaming generation.
This game is a master piece, great combat, great exploring, side missions doesnt make you tired and the art, ohh boy...the graphics and colours are perfectly fit, i feels amazing to ride a horse in this game, breath taking.
The last time a game made me feel this jawdropped was Spider-man. Everything is beautiful, the combat is extremely smooth and satisfying. You constantly stumble upon new things and the way the game points you to those things is the best UI I've ever seen. Be it birds or the wind, the visual cues are everywhere. Wish I could.give it 11. In my opinion, this is GOTY.


This game is phenomenal all around, i can't think of any negatives apart from one minor thing, i always felt the need to wear a certain armour set as it makes the controller vibrate when you're near a collectable item, and being the OCD gamer that i am i don't want to walk past any collectable when i could've noticed it via the armour set. incredible visceral combat, the BEST graphics of any game i've ever seen. great story, substories, voice acting, music.. everything is brilliant

open world batman. the best parts are when youre terrorizing mongols on the road as 'the ghost'/playing the main story. although the main story is nothing to write home about. the best part is still the opening battle sequence. But it falls flat at the end especially considering the rushed 3rd act. The other character arcs aren't interesting and neither is playing 'follow the footsteps'. The mythic quests were alright, until the devs ran out of ideas and just made the last few liberate 6 camps. Yep open world and camps. Name a more iconic duo. Not different in any way either. Rinse and repeat. This game is fun for the power trip/graphics but without interesting challenge and variety, it can't elevate itself past a 'sum of its parts'. Rote open world formula and half baked stealth really bring down what could have been a masterpiece. Oh, and let's not forget combat controls that still feel awkward 30 hours in and yes the much bemoaned camera is in fact terrible. What it does do well, it does very well though. at least you can become Fashion God of tsushima. Solid 7.8 or so.
Além de uma bela paleta de cores que compõem o cenário estonteante, a jogabilidade juntamente com a motivação do protagonista, Jin, tornam Ghost of Tsushima um dos melhores jogos do ano. A exploração da ilha e os contos secundários são muito bem feitos, recompensando o jogador que concluir eles, isso instiga o jogador a explorar 100% da ilha, atrás de recompensas como armaduras, técnicas, e aliados. Um ótimo jogo, sem sombra de dúvidas. Devo ressaltar o Modo Kurosawa, que deixa o filme uma verdadeira obra asiática cinematográfica, cada frame é uma linda pintura. Beirando a perfeição Ghost of Tsushima tem um estilo que lembra muito Assassin's Creed, porém com uma personalidade própria. Recomendo a todos que joguem.

Lovely game. It Has a Great Story, sure it has some pacing issues but the experience is something everyone should play at least one. Game of the Generation.
Игра шикарная. Особенно зашло повествование через окружение. Геймлей шикарный и затягивающий. Провел больше 10 часов и не заскучал в игре. Много активностей, интересные бои, есть лут. А общем это как третий ведьмак.
Whereas I don’t believe that any game is perfect, I also don’t believe that a game needs to be perfect in order to receive a 10/10, which to me, Ghost of Tsushima absolutely is. I haven’t been so immersed in a gaming world since the release of bloodborne. Every action I make feels meaningful, whether it be destroying a Mongolian logging outpost, or simply helping a random villager to fend off their attackers, or stopping to recollect my thoughts in the midst of a war to write a haiku about my experiences. It all feels like somehow I’m making a difference to turn the tide of the war. The gameplay to me feels very fluid and engaging. And whereas I have heard about others experiencing immersion breaking bugs, I have yet to see any. Perhaps I’m just lucky, but with how my experience with the game has gone thus far, I absolutely feel that it deserves a 10/10, and I have been, and will continue to recommend this game to all of my friends.



WOW normally I can’t stand games that don’t have shooting involved. I just don’t like the whole sword fighting thing. I gave the game a chance because I saw that it had bow and arrow as a weapon and I like Skyrim for that fact. In Skyrim I ONLY used the bow. Let me tell you I NEVER use the bow in Ghost of Tsushima. The sword play is so amazing , the story is so amazing , the graphics are so amazing. I just can’t stop playing it.
An exceedingly great game to finish out this PS generation console. Graphics are amazing, the story in engaging, and the gameplay is an excellent spiritual successor of the original assassin's creed and shadow of mordor.
Such a fun and beautiful game that takes several risks but ultimately succeeds at everything it sets out to do beautiful graphics, timeless soundtrack, great combat, and compelling story I give it a 10 because not many games take risks like this.
Absolutely one of the best games out for the PS4 and a stunning show of power and story. A great game for the PS4 generation, one of the very best, to end with as we gets closer to the next generation of PS5!
A perfect conclusion to the PS4 exclusives. Great combat mechanics and man, this game looks stunning! Convincing storyline and overall, a great one. It was worth the wait. Well done, Sucker Punch Productions.




On reading some of the reviews I saw mention of an Assassins Creed set in this era of Japans history. Its still not appeared and now, I don't care,. This is a game with excellent gameplay, great combat, solid acting and script. I have one gripe, its TOO BEAUTIFUL I can't use fast travel or even gallop on the horse its just too beautiful to miss
Ghost Of Tsuhima has a beautifully cinematic story and some very enjoyable combat encounters, with deep progression underpinning these aspects. However, at times the stealth aspects of the game can be very flat and almost clunky. This part of the game feels a tad bit underdeveloped compared to the high standard of polish on every other aspect.


Great gameplay, beautiful environments and truly inspiration setting. Has some noticable bugs for a triple AAA game but perhaps they can be patched out.



Есть ли в этой жизни что-либо более чувственное чем это? Всю игру мое сердце трепетало. Это лучшая игра в моей жизни. Однозначно стоит к приобретению
Best game of the year by far I havent finished the game yet, but I have played about 40 hours, doing a lot of side stuff. The graphics are stunning for an open world game. The main story is good, they didnt reinvent the whell, but games dont need to try to do that every single time, it is a good story. The side quests are very good too, and the mythical ones ar great. The world overall is very beaturifull, I usually never used photo mode on other games, but Im using in this one quite often. Dont use kurosawa mode (black and white) mode on a first play, the game is too beautiful for that. As for a finishing note, some ppl are reporting that the game has a lot of bugs but I havent experienced any.
The game is fun and enjoyable in almost all aspects. The gameplay really shines as the combat system I fell is the best yet to make me feel like im playing an actual Samurai. It has a bit of a Ryse Son of Rome feel but better. The world is vast and beautiful the graphics are in no way the best ever. But what they did with the world and art style makes me stop and take in the different locations and vistas constantly. I tend to run everywhere I go and not bother with horseback. The game does have some flaws with bugs and the combat can get a bit strange. But when you have that perfect fight with tons of enemies coming at you its so rewarding. I am playing on hard as i feel its a must for this game.
This game is game of the year 2020 material. I can’t believe how enthralled I was in it. I didn’t give it much thought when it was first shown off but now that I have gotten my hands on it I am just having so much fun with this game. I really hope more people pick this up and support sucker punch. It’s almost as good as Outer Wilds. Almost lol
definitely a breath of fresh air, visually at least. Amazing use of color, and minimal HUD interface lets it show through. It falls to alot of the general open world check in the box map tasks, and can feel extremely repetitive when diving into completionist territory. But the combat, though similar to the Arkham style, uses enough innovation to keep it feeling fresh and fun. I personally didn't have as much trouble getting into the story as I've seen in some of the major reviews. In fact, that's what kept me going while other recent releases, I couldn't bring myself to finish because I hated the narrative. Definitely would recommend Ghost to anyone who is a fan of "Arkhamish" combat, open worlds, and enough progression to still give a reason for the eventually repetitive map tasks.
The game is wonderful. Combat is amazing, the setting, landscape and details look gorgeous and it, imo, has the best photo mode out of any other game Only things I would like them to improve on is the camera, facial movement in the Jap dub and to be able to skip cutscenes

MASTERPIECE!!! Most beautiful game I've ever played!! I've never played a game that makes you feel so Zen. It's like meditation. I can't fault this game. Only 3 other games have made me fell this excited. God of war, ff7r, and sekiro. Easily game of the year atm
This is a brilliant game, it feels awesome being a Samaria... fighting with the katana feels rewarding and responsive, the audio is good, the visuals are incredible. I really enjoyed the first infamous, and this has that feel about it - great to see Sucker Punch at work again, but with lots of swords this time around. Definitely recommended.
This game blew my mind. I didn’t expect the amount of detail and beautiful landscape. The fighting in this game is so awesome. The one thing. The ONLY thing that was a pain was the camera. It was just so, bad. Everything else 10/10
Looks gorgeous & astonishing landscape and background Shaders. I'd truly love to give the developers a big hand. Thoughtful user interfaces such as skill, combat, quest guide system I'm pretty enjoying and being into it. It's such a shame that I couldn't feel main character's emotional stuff well like Last of us or Witcher, but still this game will be one of the greatest open world games ever.
Perhaps one of the most beautiful games of this generation, scenic beauty oozes off the screen as you traverse an authentic feudal Japan. Combat is sharp, responsive and well balanced, the difficulty of which is somewhat challenging if not taken seriously, foolish mistakes can easily get you killed. The story is expansive and immersive, layering time-lapsed side-quests that mix with the story to create an engaging narrative. Ghost of Tsushima is truly a stunning saga to experience.
This game is amazing i loved it the whole time and never got tired of it, it is a must buy and everyone should play it.The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is spectacular everything is great but nothing is a 10/10 really the only thing I could find wrong is the facial animations when you go to Japanese dialog but that is really it oh and also it has some glitches now and then but other than those little things that shouldn't stop you from playing this game it is amazing.
Un muy buen juego, gran gameplay con bastantes opciones de customizacion, la historia sublime, de lo mejor que ha salido este año. Le doy un 9/10 porque actualmente los juegos 10/10 son bastante malos.



Choose between being an honorable samurai or embrace the darkness of being the ghost the choice is yours. Sucker Punch really nailed it in the HUD by going minimalist, so the players will need to really be immersed in the game, looking where the wind blows, being alert to sounds of nearby enemies or wild animals. Plus there are no over the top markers that fill up every little space of the screen. so you need to search every bit of nook and cranny to find collectibles and items that will help you on your journey. The Game looks stunning, an open world game that wont bored you, also the story captivates you to not let go of the controller because of the many many hidden side quest that is not misleading to the real goal of the game. Sucker Punch really put a lot of effort in making this game. For those people who are into Open World games, have a sweet spot for Uncharted Series, Assassins Creed series, Witcher 3 and Legend of Zelda: Breath of the wild. Then this game is a must buy for you
Ghost of Tsushima feels like a breath of fresh air in the open world sandbox. Filled with the rich history of feudal Japan. The combat Instantly makes the player feel unstoppable. Playstation has done it again with their incredible lineup of games with the PS4. Ghost of Tsushima feels more like a thank you and farewell from the PS4.



I rarely take the time to rate games, but this one deserves your attention. If you own a PlayStation, go do yourself a favor and buy this game. Phenomenal art, gameplay, and a powerful story all come together to make what might be my game of the year. I found myself deeply invested into the characters, and the outcomes of their stories, feeling regret when I had to make dishonorable decisions to save people. This really is a masterpiece, and I’m excited to see what Sucker Punch makes next.

In the first 8 hours I rated this game a 7. But it grew on me over time and I think its about an 8 or 8.5 now that I've sunk more time. The combat had a solid amount of options and challenge. At least on the hard difficulty setting that I've been playing on. Still the combat isnt quite extensensive enough for me to love it. The world is beautiful. Worth buying to enjoy the art of it. But the story is boring and the voice acting is entirely bland. It's a good game even a pretty good game but I'm surprised to see it so highly considered. Dont go in expecting a masterpiece and you will be happy to add it to your ps4 collection.



This game has a story to tell and it does a successful job in doing that. From the characters you meet to the scenery in the world, it's theme is consistent and it succeeds in being the game that was shown to you in the previews.
Game of the year No Doubt. Is the first game in years that I've honestly been able to say that I could not put down at all I am completely obsessed with this game and that's very rare for me. if you haven't played this game I don't know what you're doing with your life
Absolutely fantastic game. I loved playing every second this game. I would recommend it to anyone. It was such a pleasure to have the option to play as an honorable warrior or a ruthless one
A 3A-level open world action game with an excellent ancient oriental background. The combat feel is very close to the same type of Warner game. It is reminiscent of Middle-earth: Shadow of Mordor. It is very challenging to attack many Mongolian soldiers under high difficulty. The design of the map guidance in the game is really outstanding. It can be seen that the production team has the humility to learn one of the most outstanding open world games of this generation: The Legend of Zelda Breath of the Wild. However, the repetition of side tasks in the middle and late stages of the game is too high, and the initial exploration fun is much less. However, this aspect is also a common problem in European and American open world games, which requires the overall progress of the industry to promote. In general, this game has drawn a perfect symbol for the entire PS4 generation. I look forward to the launch of an enhanced version for PS5 in the future, allowing us to better experience the beautiful scenery of Tsushima Island.
Oh my GAWD. Visuals 10/10 Story 10/10 Immersion 10/10. I fricken love this game. I can't put it down when I'm at home. I think about what I'm gonna do next while at work. I dream about secrets and wake up seeing if they work in the game. Bruh, buy this game

Amazing game!!!! Having so much fun playing it. Superb graphics, awesome story and a huge open world to explore. Haven’t seen a well done game like this one in awhile.
Great atmosphere, story, soundtrack, audio and visuals. The art style is phenomenal and I could definately tell that this game was made from the developers bottom of the heart. Also load times of
Atmosphere, music, game mechanics are more than satisfactory. Possibly one of the best ways to sum up the possibilities of the current PS console generation. The game is charming. Highly recommend.
While the graphics and art design are amazing, those are the only parts of the game that have really hooked me. The combat is okay. but the camera hinders my enjoyment with it getting in the way and movement generally feeling clunky. Stealth is basic and the AI makes it too easy, even on the hardest difficulty. If you want a game where you immediately feel like a badass 2 hours in then this game is great but the difficulty curve really flattens too early. The story is solid, but the poor cinematography in side quests makes it really hard to feel attached to the world or characters. I don't know it's just one of those games that is okay in every department but doesn't rise above average in any way other than graphics.
Wow. I am just impressed with this game. Ghost of Tsushima is brilliant. Good gameplay and fantastic graphics. Sometimes a little difficult. I died often. :D But a games should be challenging. Can't stop playing. Highly recommended.
Beautiful. Exhilarating. Fun. Intense. All in one game that makes you live your childhood dream of being a Samurai. Experience the beautiful landscapes and be lost in the wilds while you follow the wind to your next destination. Decide how you deliver the Mongols away from your home, whether you want to face them head on, slit their throats or kill them at once with your kunai. Must buy.


Just completed the game today! The open world is absolutely breathtaking and immersive! A must buy if you like Japan/Samurai culture! Definitely a top contender for game of the year!

Pour moi le jeux de l’année actuellement. Je prend du plaisir de jeux ce qui est rare tellement il y a de jeux génériques ces dernières années. J’en prend plein les yeux par des paysages envoûtants et tellement beaux. Un sentiment de voyage réel... j’adore !
Spent maaany hours playing this game. Combat is brilliant and is giving satisfaction when defeating enemy. Variety of quests make it interesting not just running to finish main story. Not to mention graphics which is amazing.
My first thought upon playing Ghost of Tsushima is "This is Horizon Zero Dawn goes to Japan." It's a truly beautiful game and in many ways the gameplay is not entirely dissimilar. I've played many games that I enjoyed immensely, but very few that I did not merely enjoy but felt privileged to play. Ghosts of Tsushima is such a game. It's a peculiar mixture of action and tranquility and often moral ambiguity and in many cases I found that I respected my foes -whom I of course defeated- as much as I respected my friends. And yet there's a certain almost Dark Souls feel about it. Tsushima is anything but empty but riding across the countryside between points of interest one feels very much alone. Except for the mongols of course, they pop up everywhere. So how do I go about scoring such a game? I have 5 categories scored 0 to 2 and a personal experience modifier that, depending on my experience playing can add or subtract up to 2, save that it can't reduce a score to 0 or raise it to 10. 0= unacceptable 1= acceptable 2= excellent So without further ado: SOUND: 2. The music fits the game and the scenario perfectly and I was very pleasantly surprised to note that the sound of wind was emanating from my controller. GRAPHICS: 2. Horizon Zero Dawn, which I compared Ghost of Tsushima to earlier is a prettier game in my opinion but it's often a close thing. There's an almost identical photographic mode and while HZD is more colorful, Ghost of Tsushima's beauty is more atmospheric and somehow organic. STORY: 2. The story, while based on actual events is presumably fictitious but that does not mean it isn't guided by history. I hear that the historical details are shockingly accurate, though of course concessions had to be made for the sake of gameplay. There are twists and times I wondered if I'd (that is, if my character had) done the right thing. I found it very engaging- though of course if you aren't in to the whole samurai thing you may disagree with me. CONTROLS: 2. I especially liked the riding mechanics and combat felt extremely polished. Archery, switching stances in the midst of combat, everything works extremely well. From time to time you will duel a powerful opponent one-on-one and this requires proficiency and quick reflexes and mistakes here are punished almost on a dark souls-esque level. But this is by no means unfair- quite the opposite. EXECUTION: 1. Unfortunately, there is no such thing as a perfect game. There are plenty of nits to pick here. For instance, often an item will be next to, for instance, a space you can crawl through. The button to interact with both is the same and sometimes I found myself crawling in and out of a tent several times trying to pick something up. This can be a problem when you are trying to stay out of sight and this unfortunate circumstance resulted in at least one cheap death. Some gear has clipping issues (purely cosmetic, but it can be annoying if you managed to pause the action at just the right moment to get that perfect picture but it turns out your arm is sticking through your hat. In some cases during combat, my character or an enemy (or both) was obscured by scenery and I couldn't see who I was and had to shot or attack blind and hope for the best. Fortunately each time it worked out in my favor but it gave me a few scares. None of these are major issues but even so I can't give it a 2. Personal Experience: +2. As you may have gathered, I love this game. It might not make game of the year, but it definitely deserves to be a contender. Unfortunately, I can't score it an 11 and this modifier can't take it up to 10... so... Final Verdict: 9.5 (which is not but on this scale rounds up to 10)

Adorei a história até agr , tanto da história principal como as quests do jogo , o cenário muito lindo , amei os gráficos, no começo tive dificuldade com a jogabilidade mas com o tempo vc acostuma, esse foi o jogo que eu mais esperei e não me arrependo de ter comprado ele , estou amando o jogo.
30 plus hours so far and man i can tell you that its how the assassins creed frenchise should be, no generic enviroment, no armor sponge enemies and no 10k 50$ chests you have to collect but fantastic graphics, a pure fun combat system.
c'est vraiment bien , il révolutionne rien mais il fait les choses bien , c'est beau , grand la caméra dans les combat est un peu a l'ouest mais c'est pas gênant , je conseille ce jeux a tout les fan d'open world et si vous êtes curieux de la culture japonaise et Mongol, amusez vous bien !

It is my personal Game Of The Year So much love, so much effort, such a beuatiful open world and a even better story. Every sidequest could be a big point of the mainquest. Loved every second. This Review was wrote down in the credits, with wet eyes..
The music the animation and the combat make this game an absolute 10. It's not the most difficult game by any means but easily the most fun I've had on a game in the Last 5 years. Absolutely stunning.
I'm expecting a sekiro + nioh game play and I'm happy it meets my expectations graphics is amazing and I'm looking forward to this IP again to next gen
This game may be one of the most beautiful and enjoyable titles it's ever been my pleasure to play. The world is vibrant, the map is gigantic, the story is compelling and unlike certain other recent titles, the game does not try to actively guilt-trip you for the bad things it requires you to do - instead, it explores the player character's struggles to reconcile those (necessary) actions with the man he thought he was and the man he wants to become. The combat is fluid and feels as good to use as it looks on screen. Your combat utility is also impressive, giving you options tailored to specific enemy types, multiple secondary items/weapons, a robust parrying system, and more. Whilst it's likely to draw comparisons with Sekiro or Nioh, in truth it's not really like either of those games. The game is technically outstanding as well - maintaining a stable framerate on PS4 Pro hardware in "framerate" mode, and even performing admirably on base PS4 systems. How they've achieved this is anyone's guess - the level of detail in the terrain, the texture quality, and the considerable draw distance are all staggering to behold. There is no struggle for things to do ingame - you can seek out shinto shrines for charms, bamboo-cutting for extra resolve, inari shrines for charm slots, haiku locations for cosmetic items, and hot springs for extra health. There are numerous sidequests which are encountered either organically whilst exploring, or by speaking to people in hubs for "rumoured locations". Engaging in open-world combat is also an option thanks to the roaming bands of Mongols and Bandits you find. And again, the combat feels so good to engage in that you will find yourself actively seeking out battles just to experience it. As far as twilight-era titles for the PS4 go, this game has ticked all the boxes and is close to being a necessary purchase. It has earned its 10 proudly. twitch.tv/rubberfistfight
I waited 2 whole years for this game and it was so worth it. What an absolute masterpiece. The only thing that would make it even better is a New Game+ mode.

Beautiful open world and graphics, Really and fun combat, solid story, good setting, good main character. Some bugs, none of them are game breaking tho. It does not want to change the world, but it is really fun, and entertaining.

I just finished the game and got my plat trophy this is a GOTY and 10/10 for me. Amazing world, soundtracks, story, characters and feels. Such a masterpiece game!!! So proud to be fan of SP studios. They created a work of art. Also, Jin Sakai is the one of the best protaganist in a video game. I would love to see a sequel!! This is really a PS4’s swansong!!

Шедевр игровой индустрии. Очень много новых "фишек", которые удивляли и заставляли восхищаться. Так же сюжет не оставил равнодушным. С удовольствием прошел игру на платину
Really great game. Combat is fun and super satisfying at times, visuals are amazing with a wide variety of environments, loads of character customization that falls perfectly inline with the immersion of feudal Japan, and the story follows suit. The only thing I have a problem with is the difficulty. The game is too easy even with hard difficulty. At the start it is a challenge before you have unlocked a bunch of overpowered skills, but once you have those skills, its pretty hard to lose in a battle... Visuals: 10/10 Story: 9/10 Combat: 9/10 Gameplay: 8/10 Difficulty: 5/10

Интересный сюжет, хорошо проработанный мир, прекрасно передана атмосфера того времени. Один из лучших эксклюзивов PS4!
Amazing visuals and a gripping story. Something only the most creative team in the game could dream up.
sucker punch has did it again, this game is phenomenal open world samurai game which has a great story line and an immersive world where you cant get bored.those who hate this game are either not gamers or TLOU2 butthurt sjw. in this game there are characters like Lady Masako and Yuna .this is how to do a great female character without agenda and politics.

I love this game so much. It's exactly what 2020 needed. The art direction, gameplay and story are amazingly blended together. Ghost is such a great example of open world done right. It's also a surprisingly emotional tale from Act 2 and onwards. Please play it. Sucker Punch did a wonderful job.
Brought this game on amazon and so far I love it, I spend most of the time just standing and watching beautiful island of Tsushima. The story is great, graphics is beautiful and I just couldn't stop playing this beautiful game. For me so far this is game of the year. We been waiting from Ubisoft to make a ancient Japan assassin creed but sucker punch just beat them to it and produce an amazing game. I also love the combat in this game and there is a lot to do with side quest and locations in this beautiful island. Anyway i don't want to spoil it but just buy and play this beautiful game by Sucker Punch

This is my first time submitting a review because I had to. GoT is the most entertaining game I have ever played! I am Japanese myself and could not believe how Sucker Punch has done so well of creating the open world set in Kamakura Era of Japan and with such a good story. I do not think any Japanese video game studios could have this. Absolutely loved it.

Honestly it’s a hard toss up between this and Sekiro being my all time favorite game. It’s kind of like Shadow of Mordor but with Samurai. Some might disagree with that but when I was playing it I just kept getting those vibes, but even though it reminds me of it that’s not to say it’s unoriginal. More that I had fun the entire time I was playing and it does have similar elements, but they’re done beautifully and in its own way. 10/10 can’t wait to see what’s next from sucker punch.
One of the best open world games that are very respectful of the players time. Loading is extremely fast and there are so many quality of life improvements to all open world things like resource collection and traversal. Combat is very satisfying with so many options that opens up a few hours into the game. Story is good, but i constantly get sidetracked by the beautiful world and fun side quests.
You can see the agenda of the negative reviews and hows its connected to LOU2 doing so badly. The Woke society out at large i see. This game is in a class of its own. Loved by gamers both here and in Japan. for the right reasons. This is up there with TLOU1 Horizon Zero Dawn Red dead 1 &2. Utterly breathtaking. Love the wind instead of minimap. Love the combat. Fantastic Job Sucker Punch. Ignore the trolls. Maybe lock on camera but other than that a perfect game


The only open world game better than this is BOTW. If they can improve stealth, enemy AI and the damm camera then we would have a masterpiece on our hands. Roll on Ghost Of Tsushima 2.


I'm gonna sum this game up in one word... BEAUTIFUL! I was blown away at the E3 trailer in 2017 and was so sceptical about whether this game would live up to the scale of what they showed in the trailer back then. And I am pleased to say, THEY FREAKING NAILED IT!!! Honestly, the hardest part of playing Ghost of Tsushima is putting the controller down. This game is a masterpiece in my opinion.
The game is really great. It looks to me that SP were inspired by RDR2 and Uncharted 4 by some scenes, animations, camera angles. I still like it a lot for the focus on the story more than on the hours to spend in the game. They also did their homework by getting all the details on samurai culture, fight techniques, mongol weapons and so on.


You can pet a fox! Yes, a fox. The gameplay is great, Story is great with some spectacular side stories and surprisingly exciting myth tales. Also, thee Art is gorgeous.

That game deserves only 8 ,cause story is boring and commonplace,that game dont deserve 9.3.People are mad to Last Of Us Part 2,but tlou 2 is far better than this.Gameplay of this game is good i have been playing this game at hard mode and it is easy,but Bossfight is super stupid with broken timings and stupid parry where u are already getting damage.75 % of optional quests are dog **** in the end-we have got 3 acts of the game,First act-Beggining is good all the rest is **** Act-Beggining is **** the middle of act u are asking to yourself when does it all ends,the end of second act has large-scale battle is Simura Castle,Third Act(My favourite)-Fast and good action act with cool location,and what can i say that game dont deserve User Score 9.3,TLOU2 deserve it but stupid kids dont like a good narrative of TLOU2 and prefer this very simple narrative and good gameplay.




From the opening scene to the ending scene, game draws you in. The characters are likable and you root for them. The game really brings you into the Samurai life. Gameplay 10 - so many ways to play whether stealthy or straigjt samurai challenging opponents. Visuals - 10 - moments are captured in beautiful areas. Each area has its own look. Story- 9 Has incredible story that makes you want it to continue. Photomode -10 wow it provides so many choices Characters- 8.5 Each character has their own strengths and flaws. No mary sues or unbeatable heroes. Recommend it.
Good story. Geath gameplay. The best graphic. Thank Sucker Punch Productions


Definitely the best game of 2020 , every thing is perfect, the story, graphics, and the most important the gameplay is legendary, well done Sucker Punch
GoT is a very solid entry at the end of the PS4 life cycle. The game succeeds in displaying a breathtaking Tsushima island to explore and backs it up with relatable characters and satisfying combat. The wind mechanic is a welcome alternative to the standard compass + quest marker approach of similar games, as it wonderfully merges with the landscape and mystical undertones. Following animals to hidden shrines and points of interest is also a nice touch that matches the setting. It's not all great though. Combat, while fluid and satisfying, tends to play out the same way at this point (about halfway through the game): Kill three enemies in a standoff, shoot three more in concentration mode with your bow and finish the rest with the appropriate sword stance. Granted, the skill tree does allow for some variation with Ghost Weapons and stealth thrown into the mix, but I feel that a bit more enemy variety could have been beneficial. Maybe the second part of the island will deliver just that, so I will hold my judgement for now. The landscape is the greatest feature of the game, but it's also one of my biggest disappointment in a way, as there are few ways to interact with it. No cutting vegetation, no footprints left in the mud, no diving for discarded items in lakes, no climbing trees, no hidden unique treasures or secret characters to challenge, no fishing (how dare you!) and so on. As beautiful as Tsushima is, it is also somewhat empty - and I'm not referring to mindless busy work here. After a good 20h into the game, walking through a forest or climbing a mountain you will encounter no more surprises, which is a bit sad. Random Samurai duel encounters with unique loot would have spiced up things quite a bit. Towns and camps have similar issues. Apart from being hotspots for loot and traders, there is nothing to do in them. Imagine being able to sit down with some peasants to drink sake together, play a match of Go or join in with your flute while someone is playing the Shamisen. Now imagine tying resource gain more to those actions rather than ransacking every single house in the town, where people are barely keeping their head above the water with what little they have. Facilitating exploration through loot is a good thing in general, but I feel that GoT has overdone it. Now, all of this is fair criticism that needs to be raised, but all in all I am throroughly enjoying the game as it is. However, I will also admit that my being very fond of medieval/renaissance Asia and all its facets is a big part of that. If you are just looking for the next open world game and have no particular interest in the setting, you will find GoT a rather mediocre experience. If you are here for the setting, it is probably a solid 8/10.
A really nice game to get lost in for a while. A beautiful open world, deep, fluid combat and an engaging story. A great end to a great generation of gaming.

Ghost of tsushima is the best samurai game of all time. The visuals and environment are so pleasing and amazing that it made me feel better than the real world. The combat is very much divers let you play as traditional samurai fight with honour or be a ghost who uses stealth and dirty tricks to fight with honour. The story revolves around 1274 when mongol invade village tsushima. Jin follows his father legacy to protect tsushima from mongol. In this affair jin losses many of his loved once. At the end really want say I personally loved this game make you feel like being a real samurai or be a ghost using stealth. . So our rating for visual and combat: 9/10 . Whereas the story gets: 8/10 . Overall rating: 9/10 (Amazing)

It truly is the swan song of this console generation. The attention to detail SP has put into this Kurosawa-inspired game blows me away. SP pays a lot of respect not only to Kurosawa's work, but also to the Japanese mythos and history. Combat is fluid, although the camera can be a pain at times when fighting multiple enemies in tight corners.
PLAYED THE GAME TO COMPLETION ONCE ON HARD. TIME CLOCKED : APPROX 60 HOURS GRAPHICS AND ANIMATION: The graphics are something to behold in this game. For an open world title this truly feels like a next generation game, mostly due to its art style and beautifully rendered environments. The vegetation has never been diverse in any other game. Every frame looks like a portrait in this game. The animations may feel a bit rigid sometimes , especially after seeing motion matching tech in lou2. Overall 9.5 SOUND, MUSIC AND VOICE: Truly incredible. 3D audio settings make the game sound as real as possible taking me into the forest. Music is also great. Voice acting is a bit rough around the edges. Lips dont sync at some cutscenes. Overall 9 GAMEPLAY AND AI: The gameplay is truly spectacular. The controls are complex, pulling off insane moves are very satisfying. The AI in the game is a bit underwhelming especially when it comes to stealth gameplay. Even on hard the AI is pretty basic in some stealth sections , but doesnt detract anything much from the awesome experience. There is a good amount of mechanics and learning curve to the game. The gameplay variety is just mindblowing. Almost every mission has variety. The side stuff is where the majority of the enjoyable stuff existed for me. The main missions were mostly story set pieces and short if you dont do the side stuff. Overall : 9.5 STORY: A very straight forward story with little twists along the way. The mini side stories were really intriguing and has a lot of references to 7 samurai and Rurouni kenshin anime. Overall 8 PERFORMANCE AND STABILITY: The game has minor bugs. The player cant climb certain objects though they seem climbable. It might result in a buggy fall animation. The frame rate dipped on a base ps4 on some intense sections of the game especially towards the end. But nothing game breaking. Overall pretty solid performance on base ps4. 9. REPLAY VALUE: The game has high replay value because of the enemy variety and combat depth. Time to complete the game is also solid around 50 hours. Add in hard mode and the time is extended by 10 hours. Overall 8.5 SUMMARY: GRAPHICS: 9.5 SOUND: 9 GAMEPLAY : 9.5 STORY: 8 PERFORMANCE: 9 REPLAY VALUE: 8.5 OVERALL AVERAGE: 9
Absolute Masterpiece! The story is so emotional! The combat and gameplay mechanics are unbelievably remarkable and in the 2nd place to me after God of War 2018! The acting is si darn good! Side missions are the best side missions I've played! Give it GOTY already!!
This is perhaps one of the most amazing games I had ever played! This is the first game, which I genuine feel the sense of exploration and being in a forest from simply the gameplay. I do not know if it is the camera placement or the details, but I feel a sense of actually walking thorough a large dense forest! I love what SP have done!!!
Excellent game and one of the best games of the generation, with a previously unseen art direction. -The world is beautiful and engaging, with different and varied biomes and lots of interesting places to discover. Everything you do is rewarding, as you progress through the large skill trees or unlock cool customizing items. -The combat starts basic but quickly progresses and adds many new things, never becoming boring. There are plenty of skills, abilities and stances. However, the stealth too easy due to IA being a bit dumb. -There's great variety of missions, and even though most of them have the same structure (go to a place > follow trail or npc > kill enemies), the story that's behind them is well written and makes the time spent worthwhile. Both the main and the side characters are great and charismatic. -The soundtrack is GOD. Overall, extremely beautiful game with a perfect balance of all of its elements. It only suffers a bit from the market sturation of open worlds (same elements seen in those are present here), but the execution here is flawless and it's only beaten by RDR2 in this field. A must have for PS4 owners.
Игра хороша тем что нет всяких уродов с повесточкой которая так затрахала в последнее время!



Amazing game! Wouldn’t change a thing, its an original idea for a game and unique in its own way.
The gameplay and fighting is wonderful with stunning graphics and a beautiful and interesting story. Only reason it’s not a 10 in my opinion is the small details like clipping problems and things like the bow instantly appearing in jin’s hand, and then appearing right back on his back when you’re done with it. But that’s just nitpicking. All in all, wonderful game. Loved it. Hope to see more in the future
Ghost of Tsushima é um jogo com incrível respeito a cultura Japonesa e imensa qualidade em seu combate. Seu mundo aberto realmente te premia ao explorar. Sidequests muito bem construídas e uma grande variedade de habilidades armaduras e skins para sua katana. Possui alguns problemas de física e textura. Tocando no assunto visual o jogo possui um visual incrível tanto gráfico, quanto artístico.


I was a fan of Infamous but did not pick up on the release of Ghost of Tsushima until my friends said how good this was. I picked up a copy and was thankful I did so, the experience playing this game has been amazing. Every ten steps I want to take a screenshot and the gameplay is brilliant. The wind and particle mechanics are a breathtaking and the gameplay loop is so much fun. I suffer from open world fatigue quickly but I was not able to put this game down often staying up all night to get that next skill, bow or hone my samurai skills. All in all, fantastic work sucker punch!

Muy buen juego , no me lo esperaba , los combates son un reto , divertido y muy sangriento. Gráficamente no es lo mejor de la generación pero luce muy bien , el HDR es genial en PS4 Pro. La historia de momento tras unas horas es muy buena, muy bien lograda la ambientación Japonesa.
Потрясающий проект с великолепным сеттингом! Успехов разработчикам в дальнейшем творчестве:)
Ghost is a wonderful swansong for the end of the PS4. I could go on about how beautiful it is, how fun it is to play, how great the game runs, etc. however the one thing that continually impresses me is how COHESIVE the game is. Every element comes together seamlessly as story drives gameplay and its evolution, then sound and music design enhance every moment with a wonderful combination of ambient nature, living npcs in the background, and the stellar soundtrack that feels tailor made for combat, exploration, and cinematics. I am highly impressed with Ghost of Tsushima and constantly have issues setting it down for any reason. It isn't perfect, but frankly its issues aren't worth talking about as they would only sound like petty nitpicks and are inherent to the type of game it is. If you are a fan of open-world exploration games such as The Witcher 3 and Horizon Zero Dawn you will not be disappointed in Ghost at all. Additionally a fan of old-school Samurai Cinema you will find yourself tripping on nostalgia for this game CONSTANTLY.
this is everything i want in an open world game, there is a ton to do with out it all feeling like filler or being overwhelming. i liked red dead 2 but more often than not i would log on to play then two hours later realize all I've done is cut my hair, taken a bath, fed my hours, and shot a damn clerk again because there are too many action mapped to the controller. but with this game i can log on for an hour, make my character more bad ass, complete side quest that are fun, find hidden items and move the story along. every enemy encounter offers some great tactics and tension, when you lose a fight you know why and when you win you feel like a bad ass (playing on medium seems fair and balanced). i could keep going on but i'll leave it at this, if any of these positive reviews speak to you, do you self a favor and get this game. probably play games too much and this is the most fun I've had in a single player game in a loooong time.
A game that is fun, interesting in its world and characters while keeping fun gameplay mechanics. Lacks polish on some textures and animations. Japanese and English dubs are great. On some other languages the pronunciation of names and the changes to some dialogue leaves to be desired. As for the story, it starts great, the development of Jin's emotions and his willingness to do what is necessary would be better if the game was stealth only, it would be more fitting to this title to have different endings, dialogs, reactions to player actions and reactions from the enemies mirroring the player playstyle. Overall a great experience, higher difficulties only enriches the “last samurai” feel.

This game is amazing. You will feel like you're living in this world. You will feel bad for NPCs. It's one of the most immersive games I've ever played. Story should be made into a movie asap and the gameplay is deep and rewarding. Amazing job, Sucker Punch.
Absolutely fantastic game with an amazing cast of characters. An amazing world for you to explore with many hidden secrets. Also one of the best combat systems I have ever played with. Highly recommend this game!
I was pretty tired of open world...i must admit that i started this game with not much hype about it. I even stopped after 1-2 hours. Then i took my time and damn i was blown away. I want to explore everything i got hooked to the game badly to the point that i always want to play it and discover its world. Good f job !!!
Jogo muito lindo, Sony fechando com chave de ouro. Temática massa, nova IP que pode ficar melhor ainda no ps5.
Excelente mundo aberto, gráficos incríveis, boas missões secundárias e opcionais

Jogo artístico com pelos gráficos. Sistema de combate aprimorado aonde a escolha da postura combinada com uso de armas fantasmas fazem do samurai protagonista uma arma letal. Ótimo jogo, vale a pena platinar.
Very beautiful game, the developers have tried to squeeze all the juice out of the PS4. The combat system is good, it's a shame that there is no dismemberment.

This game has such an amazing world and the story was just speechless the ending where you have to fight your own uncle is heartbreaking and choosing to spare him and have no honor or to kill him had me in tears sucker punch did an amazing job with this game this is a Must Buy
Awesome game! Nice story telling and while doing sidequests i dont feel like delivering just stuff or doing unimportant things. The fight system is a bit to easy in my opinion but thats fine.
Ghost of tsushima. not many games have left a void inside me after finishing them, but this game falls in this category. everything about this game has been handled with love, the visuals are stunning, every location and design is meaningfull and alive. the story is impactfull and makes you care about it, about the characters and this world. the music, fantastic, the kind of music that gets a spot in your brain even after you finish the game, creating memmories from each note. the gameplay is superb, nothing feels tedious, well except waiting a bit for jin to resume moving after finishing an objective but still superb. and unlike many other games this one ENDS well, a very great tie up to this amazing story that will leave you wanting to experience this entire thing all over again. 10/10 would reccomend you all to get this one.
This is a game worthy of Game of the Year. The use of the sony’s Controller was surprisingly great, and the wind use as a guide was a really good way to maintain immersion. I cannot stop playing this game!


Only open world game I did everything what a great game just awesome.If you want a game that’s fun and makes you feel like a bad ass Ghost is the game and can’t wait to see it on the PS5
Story 10/10 (Jin is the perfect badass Samurai) Graphics 10/10 (The flowers and god rays look tight) Gameplay 10/10 (Smoothest Samura combat ever) Sound 10/10 (Crisp blades sounds & great voicing) Fun Factor 10/10 (The most fun Ive ever had on p4) (Spoiler free) A complete swan song for the Playstation 4, ending the current console cycle with style, grace, and ferocity. 30 hours in, I can safely say this is the best looking game of the generation, and the most fun I've had in an open world this generation.


I'd give this a 7.5 if I could, not quite an 8. While the game looks great and the core gameplay such as the fighting and traveling around are great, outside of the main story the game has a certain emptiness. There are various side quests, but most amount to nothing more than "go here and kill some guys" After 10 or so hours of this repetitiveness, I began to grow bored. I would actively avoid the random encounters and forts as there really wasn't enough variation to warrant doing something I'd done 20 times before. There aren't really any super compelling stories in the side quests, and the rewards they offer aren't worth the repetition. I really did enjoy the waypoint mechanic and lack of a normal hud, it a pretty refreshing change from the majority of games that are beginning to feel cluttered. The main story was pretty good, but the main story quests were also a bit lacking and repetitive by the time I had gotten halfway through act 2.
One of the most beautiful games in history and a technical marvel as well. I've never seen such draw distances on a console, without any popup whatsoever, and with 3-5 seconds loading times. Visceral, impactful combat with a lot of tools to play with. Wind as a navigation tool is genius. 9 out of 10 because AI is very dumb, enemies are often completely deaf and blind, oblivious to the slaughter 5 meters away or on the first floor of the building. Stealthy gameplay makes the game super easy because of that.
I just finished playing and think that it was a worthy journey. This was one of the best games I have had the opportunity to play since Days Gone. The story was interesting and as your journey progressed how I played evolved with my choices and I hope there will be some DLC in the future.
Just as i expected, Sony found the best way to end PS4's long path. This game is the perfect dessert after a pleasing dinner. There are only few games capable of giving me the chills, the emotion, the energy, and Ghost of Tsushima is definitely one of those; for those who are not very convinced, just make a leap of faith and trust the unknown, this game is pure art and I'm sure that, as art itself, it will be capable to blow up infinite emotions in you. Good job Sucker punch.
The game of the year. Pure entertainment If you like movies and samurai games like Nioh and Onimusha and stories from feudal times and playing in an open world? This is your game. Story 9, gameplay 10, scenarios 10
This game is visually beautiful of course. The story it provides actually keeps me engaged as well as the side missions. It also feels genuine in the way that most of these missions don't end with a "happy ending" since they're trying to tell a story about war. The only personal issues I have be with the game is the lip syncing, (Japanese doesn't look like the lips change for the language) for most of v the game I couldn't help but he'll like their mouths barely moved at all. There's also no lock-on system which I feel the game might have benefited a lot from it if implemented. there are times in the game where you're fighting and the camera stays in a position where it's very awkward for you to see the enemies behind you or next to you making you decide between pressing the right button at the right time or to get hit to move the camera to a better position If you're looking for an action adventure game with mind blowing new features, then this game like most, offer the common tropes. Gather collectibles, liberate Outposts that show you more of the map , investigate areas, and defeat all enemies. All of this so that you may increase your characters level in one way or another. If you come to play the game and enjoy some samurai style action and enjoy a visually and engaging game then this game is for you. But if you expect to see mind-blowing new features in an action adventure game then you'll quickly realize that it's like most action adventure games.
Considering this game is number 1 game across the US and in Japan. This game also out sold more copies than TLOU2 and its still going to out sale it due to being a poor product. Comparing this game to TLOU2., this game with their special effects and the environment are amazing. The story line in this game is amazing plus the characters you meet are interesting. Each with their own faults or issuesas well as watching them develop. You don't see this in TLOU2, it's all political, all the time and killing off fan favorite characters. Put the hours into this game, enjoy the story and have fun with this game like it was meant to be with no political stupidity whatsoever, not like in TLOU2, where it's all political. Worth the replay value and worth making this game GOTY vs giving it to a poorly developed game like TLOU2.
Лучшая игра на данный момент, сочетающая в себе механики таких хитов как Секиро, Ведьмак 3 и Horizon zero dawn и с превосходной визуализацией и графикой и это всё в открытом мире. P.S. The Last of Us 2 отдыхает.
Oh my god, what an experience, I had such a blast playing this game the combat, story, and overall beauty of the game second to none if you have a chance to get any game this year I suggest this one, in my opinion it is the game of the year
Jogo Mais do que recomendado, muitos dizem que é uma cópia do assasins's creed no japão, porém a sucker punch conseguiu fazer o que os assasin''s creeds atuais tentam fazer não conseguem de jeito nenhum, um combate super bem feito e fluído com histórias interessantes em um mundo aberto vivo e super contemplativo, tendo sua direção de arte com um dos principais pontos positivos, super recomendado, principalmente pra quem gosta da cultura japonesa é um título obrigatório.
The stars aligned on this one. A true masterpiece in gameplay and storytelling. It takes the best elements of many different genres and executes on them perfectly. I didn't anticipate how much I'd enjoy the wind objective markers and other various ways the game points you in the right direction without ugly HUD until I experienced it. The overall absence of a HUD while riding around lets you really experience this visually stunning game as if you're riding through a samurai movie. The story is emotionally compelling as well. Each side quest is its own mini story, and although they're just side quests, none of them feel like time wasters. There's some really gut wrenching stuff int he main story as well, and the voice acting (I played in English) is superb. I have no notes. This is a mic drop of a game for the PS4 era. Full disclosure: I've completely finished the game and got every achievement except the collect-a-thon ones.
O jogo é sensacional, uma das melhores mecânicas de combate que já joguei na minha vida!! Uma física impressionante, gráficos sensacionais, o jogo é uma masterpiece. Isso sim é jogo de verdade pra ninguém botar defeito. Vale cada centavo investido. Recomendo jogar no difícil se for um jogador da série souls like.
Игра шикарная, до последнего не верил в успех игры, но купил по скидке 50% (акция в магазине). Японский сетинг прекрасен, все эти самураи, ниндзя, кланы, войны, мечи, честь и т.д. Сюжет интересный, намного приятней слышать "монголы" нежели чем "орки, тролли" да и историю Японии тоже интересно узнавать. Графика отпад! Из фоторежима не выхожу, советую всем, достойный последний эксклюзив PlayStation 4
Wonderful Game!! It doesn't reinvent the wheel, but then again, what does at the end of a console generation? But GOT does excel at everything and package everything we know about open world games into a satisfying, beautiful package. It's straightforward fun without the pretentiousness that many games seem to have taken upon themselves lately.

Excellent game full of variety and tons of sidequests (tales) that intertwine with the main story in a very organic way. The graphics are breathtaking and the world and characters of GOT are interesting and move the plot forward. Masterpiece!
This Game has it all. A super fluid Combat System with many different skills and tools. A beautiful World with a very big World Map and a lot to do. You can unlock so many things. This Game rewards u for playing side Content so much and there is no microtransactions. I can not take any rating below 90 seriously. Buy this Game.
Ghost of Tsushima brings everything it promised and more, beautiful scenery and cut scenes, involving dialog, a great story with almost endless side quests that doesn't seem to feel boring. Unlike most games the side quests aren't just for money or xp but instead they help improve th3 character in his progression of of the story. At the same time the combat is immersing and makes you challenge yourself to switch it up during. Enough cannot be said about this game


This is a beautiful title to bookend the library of the PS4, great gameplay, visually stunning, and an enjoyable story that I've had a great time playing. The combat for me is where the game stands out for me personally.
The stealth system is fantastic(in my personal opinion) the combat also works great, and the game allows you to chose how to deal with situations, sometimes stealth is forced, but that’s only for a few quests, there are plenty of different armors that allow different play styles, for instance Gosakus armor allows you to barrel through enemies and gain health back, while the tadayori armor allows for more concentration time on the bow for deadly aim. The characters are a bit dull, but the story is still very entertaining, it’s very similar to older samurai movies. The open world is designed wonderfully, and everything looks beautiful, and while exploring the already amazing world, a golden bird may fly down and guide you to an undiscovered location. The game provides a long 30 hour base game, with plenty of other content mixed in for a longer and much more entertaining experience. There are also plenty of tools to be used for stealth and combat that evens the odds in unfair situations, for example, sticky bombs will effect every enemy in a close area perfect for if your overwhelmed, bows are great for stealth and dealing with the stronger enemy’s from a far distance, and the blow dart will one shot any enemy unless you hit a shield. Ghost of Tsushima is an amazing experience that I would recommend to anyone who is a fan open world games
I beat it last night. Got a platinum trophy. Suckerpunch has created a refreshingly awesome new experience that many creators will borrow from for many years to come. So nice to play a game that is meant to be fun. No microtransactions or agendas here folks. Just straight up gaming with characters you love and a story that touches your heart. I thoroughly enjoyed playing a game that wasn't trying to teach me a lesson or tell me I was wrong for not liking it. SP also takes criticism well and made a product for us by us. Such respect and class and thanks for making this dreadful year just a bit better by letting me escape in to your beautifully crafted world. I love fun games that are meant to be fun.

If I had to sum up GoT in one word, I couldn't. This game is beautiful, the graphics are some of the best ever. The gameplay has a perfect balance of being badass and powerful, but you can also get your ass kicked. The story isn't a basic revenge plot, there is so much more. The side quests are amazing. Some are helping random people in the world, while others follow one side character for 4-9 missions. I do have 2 criticisms though. The camera can be a bit finicky at times, like climbing, it also doesn't have a lock of so you have to manually aim Jin at the enemies. And the guiding wind is a bit tricky when you are clearing farms. I wander around for 5-10 minutes trying to find the last hostage. I might just be a bit stupid also. Buy this game. You won't regret it.



I went into this game expecting nothing, I liked the idea at first but then when I played it I found out how masterful it is. I wasn’t expecting this game to be my surprise gaming addiction but now I can’t put the controller down, I must play this game everyday. Now for the real review, the story and the gameplay are incredible, you get to explore but you can choose your path, this truly is a game of choices and branching paths and story lines. The mechanics like I said incredible and customizable, the gameplay is extremely fluid. If you love stealth or being a ninja and assassin you will love this game.
The wind rips by your face as the driving rain splatters around you. Lightning strikes illuminate the scenic mountaintops adorned with ancient shrines, bonsai and waterfalls. Fire arrows rain down around you as you seek to save your homeland with your trusty katana and your very life. You are the Ghost of Tsushima and the mongol world is about to know it! Addicting, amazing game. Beautiful art and weather, impossible not to take multiple screenshots. Combat is fun, intuitive and gets progressively better over time. Love all the different armor sets and customization, you feel like a badass samurai and isn’t that the point?Duels are epic and the music brings up the intensity of each fight. Hard to describe all the fresh nuances of this game, must be played to understand all the aspects that make this game brilliant. 9.5/10


This game is just freakin good. - Combat is fluid - Story is good - Graphics are nice - no woke garbage - Good Female characters ( doesnt feel forced in) - Its a Huge game - Side quests matter - you look Badass - Good voice acting ( japanese) Note: if you have a SSD in your PS4 the game will load everything in secs. I feel like i have no loading times, not every game loads that fast even with a SSD.
The graphics of the game are beautiful and breathtaking at times. The gameplay is good though it can get a little repetitive at times especially since you use the same sword the whole game. The story is good, it's not groundbreaking to me and the pacing gets really slow at time.
I've platinumed the game and can say with confidence it's one of the best open world games I've experienced. The story is surprisingly emotional, the combat is amazing, and the side content didn't feel so repetitive for me (maybe a little). Incredibly satisfying to liberate the entire island...and a great ending for the PS4's generation.
This game is phenomenal. Sucker Punch has made a world that’s so alive unlike a lot of open world games. There’s not one thing I don’t love doing whether it be climbing shrines, following foxes and birds, doing bamboo strikes, and every single side quest I come across. I couldn’t put this game down. So beautiful in every regard. The more you interact with the characters the more you care about them. The characters in this game aren’t empty husks. You learn more about them. The writing for this game is surprisingly good as well. Thsnk you sucker punch. I love this game!!!
Exceeded expectations. Hopefully SP decides to do more open world RPGS after this because this game was amazing. Definitely my Goty, depending on how well Cyberpunk does.
Epic game epic enviroment epic story epic characters epic gameplay!! Japan colture is so baautifull.

Look here, this is the best samurai game I have ever played. The story keeps you on your feet. The gameplay is far from boring. It is challenging. The characters feel authentic. The atmosphere of the game is incredibly detailed and all around beautiful. It is a challenging yet relaxing game.

Loved the graphics, enjoyed the game play but not something that suits my game style. Great to see a game with very low advertising do so well in designing, building and selling the game.
Great game the story was phenomenal and surprising, my only problem was that I ran into some bugs, but everything else was great!

Easily the most beautiful game ever made! Even better is the gameplay,open world,and music are just as amazing and it call comes together to make one of the best open world action games ever made. Sucker Punch did an amazing job and the game should be played by all PS4 owners especially on a pro with a HDR enabled television.
I am a game experience unfair experience on this website, I can’t give last of us 2 lower scores than 5 here when I send out my review. I found this website has many users give last of us 2 10 scores and give Ghost of Tsushima 0 score! I feel it is sooo unfair, so I have to login in and say the truth! I preordered both games. When I was play Last of us 2, I feel my be loved characters totally changed and IQ went way lower than before. The story was not based on the personality that they have in Last of us 1. I stopped playing it after 2 hours. And for Ghost of Tsushima, I totally feel I am a samurai and even the side missions has really good storyline! The most exciting thing is the view in the game is literally an ART! I can’t stop screenshot the game play games!You can find them on my Twitter @xiaonuanjess Anyway let’s try this review can be uploaded on this website or not!

Ar اللعبة ممتازة بشكل لا يصدق وتعتبر خاتمة خرافية للجيل القصة ممتازة والجيم بلي خرافى اللعبة ارشحها اللعبة السنة من غير منافس
TLDR: Ghost of Tsushima is one of the most beautiful visually and enjoyable gameplay-wise open world games that I played in my life. Read firuther for the details. Now, I will say right away that for me "10/10" is not a "perfect" game. For me, it means a game that pushes the boundaries of the genre, basically read it as "as good as it gets" score. The reason is - I haven't once in my life played a game that could be called Perfect, and I don't expect to, but that's not a reason to never give a game a 10. First, let's adress the least controvercial thing: the graphics. GOT is the most visually stunning game that I EVER saw with my own two eyes. Being a software engineer that works with graphics, I am blown away by how they could achieve that on a PS4 hardware. I have no idea if it's technically the best, but VISUALLY, in terms of art direction and how the engine realizes that - it's THE most beautiful games that I've played EVER. It's a masterpiece. I will share one fact to just demonstrate how good it is. This is the first game that I'm actually making screenshots for several times a day. I never felt the need in any game before. Here, these screenshots look like works of art, and you see beautiful scenery on every corner IN GAME. Now, onto gameplay. It's good. It's a bog-standard open world game, with camps to conquer, collectables to find and climbing puzzles (shrines) to clear. It's nothing special, but don't get me wrong - while it doesn't make any innovation - it is incredibly well-made. It is really enjoyable and not frustrating at all to chase the side activities. The combat system makes it all the better. This is again a first for me - I actually find myself stopping for every randomly-spawned bandits on the road to kill them, because I enjoy the combat so much. I will note here, however, that the game is extremely easy, especially if you use ghost tools in combat. It's outright TOO easy. For me, that's not a huge deal, but I could see it being a problem for others. Personally, I simply enjoy it for what it is, but I wish there was a higher difficulty settings and that ghost tools were useful, but not so overpowered. Onto the story. I read several reviews that criticized the story for several things. One review mentioned that all the characters are very serious and there's no comic reliefs save for one. They feel like the same character, the review said. The other review mentioned that the story is nothing special. And it's all very close to truth. But I don't think that it's a detriment here - but that it's actually good. The story is your standard "I will destroy enemy forces that invaded my home". It doesn't give you any WOW-moments, and it's not a narration that you will remember for it's engaging plot twists and amazing plot devices. But it is a very solid "serious" story that gives you the goal without any moralizing or cringe moments. I find so often in games that in order to entertain the player they start to make silly jokes and make you do silly things that are fun but unrealistic. Assassin's Creed, for instance, has A TON of cringe moments where you feel like it's made for under-10 kids. In addition, games like virtue-signalling nowadays, and start including "gender equality" or stuff like that, as well as tons of morals about value of friendship and being nice to each other... None of that here. You're a samurai, you care for your people. There are mongols that are Bad. Go kill. End of story. And really, it's a breath of fresh air. It doesn't need anything more, because the core gameplay is so enjoyable that the story doesn't need to do anything but just give you a direction to go to. Onto the Characters. I thought they're good too. Again, they're criticized for being too serious. But that's a good thing, because they fit the world extremely well. I don't think they are the same at all, but they ARE indeed all no-nonsence (except one). It makes total sense in a state of war, and it serves to keep the tone of the world consistent. Nowadays in games, studios often make each next character very distinct, giving them over-the-top traits, personalities, and carricature appearances. There's nothing wrong with that, but I feel that there's merit in having a realistic story with real-looking people too. Finally, I'll address the tone. The world of Tsushima is rather dark, and it doesn't shy away from realities of war. People are tortured, women are kidnapped, peasants are starving, and the roads are littered with corpses lynched by mongols or murdered by bandits. But all of this drama is a backdrop. The hero and the player remain separated from that, and it doesn't make the game feel depressive. Quite on the contrary - everywhere Jin goes, he gets to make everything a bit better for the people, and it feels nice. In conclusion, this is a definite MUST-BUY game on PS4. For me, this is a GOTY so far. We'll see how Cyberpunk goes.
Just when I'm beginning to think an open world game can't add anything new to the genre, Ghost of Tsushima proves me wrong. Sucker Punch in my opinion has truly enhanced open world exploration with the much welcomed addition of the guiding wind which allows for total immersion and appreciation of scenery. Since the Witcher 3 I have not been this pleased by an open world game. Which brings me to my next point: side quests. Just like W3 these events feel like they matter, and the rewards are worth my time. One aspect I really enjoyed was the incorporation of haiku composition as a means to earn a piece of equipment, these events feel wholesome and deeply satisfying. Lastly I would say that although the stealth element is more of the same as you would see in AC or MGS, this does not detract from the game but adds it to the realm of greats, in my opinion it never gets old. Combat is fluid and thrilling. The stance mechanic is a fun game of rock paper scissors that kept me on my toes and made character progression interesting. Excellent game and definitely worth my money.
Minor bugs, some repetitiveness and a need for a little more enemy variety keeps it from being a perfect 10 but since 9.5 isn't an option I rounded up. One of the biggest selling points is just exploring the island and it's beauty. Loved it overall, it really makes you feel like a BA samurai, exploring a vast and beautiful open world, saving your countrymen and serving out justice to invading Mongolians and shameful bandits with excellent style. The combat is fluid, somewhat methodical, challenging but not too harsh. Some of the character tales and main story pieces were pretty gripping and actually teared me up, though just a bit. It's definitely made it's way into my top 10 games of this generation and would say it's a must play for anyone who's a fan of the genre.

эта великолепная получал огромное удовольствие от боёвки уворотов и всего прочего советую всем !
I really enjoyed Nioh so I figured I would give this game a shot. Glad I did, because while it isn't exactly the same type of game, it is a game that I didn't want to stop playing. Beautiful graphics and great sound for headphones.

Very good nice !!!!!!!thanks for saker panth 2020 seeking lljbkljbvvnxldkdxhxnsjzshsdhdh

This game is the best game I have played in almost 12 years. I would strongly recommend this game to just about anyone honestly, the story is more than serviceable, the combat is so weighty and fluid it feels amazing. the attention to detail is jaw dropping, and I have to say that the graphics are the best I have personally every played within a video game. Every blade of grass feels like it was placed in a specific spot on purpose. I honestly can not think of a single person grievance I had with the game. the game is challenging on medium and hard, story is well paced, voice acting is top notch, the animations are crisp and beautiful, I am currently on my second play through with only one bug, I got launched 50 feet in one direction when an enemy hit me and I clip on a wall, I was unable to replicate the bug so I guess it was one in a million. This is an amazing game (IN MY OPINION) that I would recommend to any one who appreciates quality games.

I'm about 10 hours in and I'm loving this game. In the early game (on Hard), the combat is manageable when fighting 1-2 enemies but when against a patrol (of 5 or more enemies) I get overwhelmed and have to resort to ghost tactics. I just feel a sense of realism having to resort to ghost tactics to win against the enemy. Though as I get more technique points, I can slowly take on more enemies at a time. Very fun combat. Exploring the open world by relying on the guiding wind is also a breeze and immersive.
Best game of the 2020 year! It takes all you could want in samurai game and more. 20 out of 10 is the real rating for this game. Game of the Year award is Ghost of Tsushima.
Gooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooooood Gameeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee but so is the laaaaaastttttttttt offffffffff ussssssss paaaaaarrtttttt 2222222 pplleeeeaaasseeee dooonnttt caaanceelllll meeeee
Sem sombra de dúvidas o melhor jogo da geração Pra mim perfeito em todos os aspectos. Meu parabéns para os criadores e desenvolvedores dessa obra prima
I give Ghost of Tsushima a 10 because of how well the development team handled the game design, Audio, Music Score, And Combat! Starting off with the design! Graphically, Ghost of Tsushima looks AMAZING! The wonderfully rendered textures and Animations give the game its unique charm that captivates the audience to show the true beauty of Tsushima Island... On my journey across the Tsutsu and Hiyoshi areas of the Izuhara region, I spent HOURS in the games photo mode, Whilst completing main quests and side missions! The audio is very well done, Played best with headphones of course! The music fits well with the action and the exploration, As well as cutscenes too! Dramatic when in combat, And soothing when exploring! And the NPC diolog is at it's highest quality! To save the best for last, Combat! The combat in Ghost of Tsushima is amazing... The free-flowing swordplay displayed is exceptional! I was able to use Bows, Kunai, and even sticky bombs too! While mixing in some stealth. A few cons..The unlimited arrows the enemy archers have at thier disposal are just appalling! It would be cool to see them run out of arrows to pick out some more, to add realism! And there are a few small texture issues as well.. But that's because I'm not using a PS4 PRO. in conclusion, Ghost of Tsushima is worth EVERY PENNY as the game delivers exceptional quality, Combat and Immersion! The character progression and customization is the cherry on top in this action packed open world game!
Sucker Punch has been making great games since Sly Cooper dropped on the PS2, and while Ghost of Tsushima isn't as great as some of their previous games, it's still a good game. The main story is pretty generic, however the side quests are great and overall, many of them strengthen the main story. Jin at times is a pretty dull character but his monotonous and stiff personality plays well off the other characters. The design of this game is so freaking beautiful. It's like a painting coming to life. So many times i've found myself standing on the edge of a cliff just looking at the world in front of me. Graphics aren't groundbreaking or as detailed and realistic as other games but the artstyle and the colors, man, this game is gorgeous. Facial animations and animations in general aren't really innovative, and sometimes they're really wonky. And as I said already, the graphics aren't anything to write home to, which is odd because Infamous: Second Son had a really high level of polish to it and the details in the graphics and facial animations were top notch, and that game came out early in the PS4's life cycle. So it's confusing to see Sucker Punch go backwards in that area. On top of that, I've encountered a few frame rate stutters and drops. Combat is fluid and it makes you feel like a legit samurai. The weight for the attacks and movements are on point, and if you put in the effort, you can pull off some nice fluid combos. The navigation system of using the wind to guide you is a nice touch and it brings your focus to the beautiful world Sucker Punch has created. This game isn't a cinematic experience like most triple a games are these days, and it feels more like a video game then those games. There are times where movement and animations aren't as smooth or fluid as God of War, Tlou, or even Infamous: Second Son, however, this game is a blast to play, and it's most definitely worth a purchase.
Very great story, awesome open world, addictive game, awesome art and graphics. A very complete game with a satisfactory combat system, somewhat underrated by the press. One of the best of 2020
Now THIS is how you do a samari game. I can’t say anything beyond what everyone else has said. I’ve had this game a week and have only got out of the first area after doing literally everything there. It’s that good. If you’re not playing this, you’re wasting your time.
Easily the most visually stunning game on that's ever been produced on console. The world is so nicely laid out and the detail is something to behold. The combat is so satisfying and is continuously evolving. Playing this game on hard and not obtaining damage in a fight is one of the most satisfying times I've had playing games. The side tales, while all playing out pretty similarly, gives a great insight into the lives of the side characters. The first time I've ever completed all side quests before finishing the main story. A great pleasure to play, and can't wait for a NG+

Good graphics, smooth gameplay, interesting characters and cool story. These are one of the many strengths of Gohst of Tsushima, in addition to the open world that is very detailed, especially the grass of the game. The negative points are that some bugs and textures on the floor are not very beautiful. But overall Gohst of Tsushima is an excellent game.
NO SPOILERS!!! What can I say about the game the visuals were amazing made me feel like I was in Japan the landscapes were so beautiful don’t know how many times I just did nothing but to explore the world the gameplay was So much fun the duels made you feel like a bad*** after winning the story was great the characters were also great I already platinum this game I would so erase my mind just to replay this game this is the best game of the year and quiet possibly this generation so far (cyberpunk might change my mind but we will see ) i highly recommend buying this you won’t be disappointed PS don’t listen to the zero ratings it’s just a bunch of last of us 2 fans that are salty that everyone loves this game and not last of us 2 Everyone is entitled to their own opinion but this game a zero please they just review bombing it for no reason at all check this game out and see for yourself hopefully sucker punch will add new game plus and a very hard mode to make the game more interesting I would so play it again

Story 8/10 I love the story so much .. it’s not perfect but it’s good i think everyone will love it .. just having a little bit of issues with it but no details will be told cause it’s in the middle of the game ..... so 8/10 Graphics 9/10 the environment and the colors are so beautiful everything is good except the characters faces they could have made it better .. sometimes it feels like they don’t have emotions u can’t feel their emotion by their faces it’s kind of cold looking .. Gameplay 9/10 i love it it’s never get boring u will love to fight everyone u see my only problem is the camera moves and there is no lock on. - Game in general 9/10
Awesome game. The open world has it's share of collection activities, you may like or hate them. But the story is a very emotional tale with awesome characters and setting. The combat flows like water and makes you feel like a badass.



Beautiful world, with beautiful music and a very mature story, all backed up by fun combat. A must play in my eyes. It’s got some pretty dumb AI that makes the stealth a little awkward sometimes, but most of the time the stealth is still really fun. And if you decide to be an honorable samurai, the combat is incredible. The stances introduce a level of complexity that I still haven’t unlocked the full depths of. On surface level, each stance just works better against different enemies (which on its own can make the strategy of each fight really fun) but once you start to get good at switching stances around you realize how personalized each fight can become. Each stance has a variety of different heavy attacks that all have cool different animations, and when you finally start experimenting successfully with these, it’s incredibly badass. One of the better combat systems I’ve ever seen in a video game, though the difficulty levels may leave a little to desire for people who enjoy From Software games. The world is like constantly walking through the most perfect samurai movie. It’s nothing like real life Tsushima (which apparently is mostly mountains and dense forest, which is beautiful in its own right but wouldn’t make for a very fun open world), and instead pulls biomes from all over mainland Japan. There’s an incredible simplicity with each area that really makes every single moment memorable. Jason Connell and the rest of the art team really had a clear vision of minimalism and executed it perfectly. The music as well accents every second of the game perfectly. It’s not always playing, and it doesn’t have the same consistent ambient music like in Red Dead, but this means that when it starts to play it really evokes every emotion it’s meant to. The strongest example of this for me is when you’re following a fox to an Inari shrine. Absolutely magical moment every time, as a furry little friend leads you to the shrine, this beautiful ethereal music eases its way into your ears filling you with an incredible sense of wonder and magic. Truly one of the best moments of the game every time it happens. The story is much more mature than I was really expecting, especially given how little of it they actual showed in their marketing. It doesn’t do too much to really shock you or subvert the typical tropes of the samurai Genre, but it’s an incredible story of Jin Sakai having to go against everything he knows and was taught growing up. His relationship with his uncle is very well built and serves as a great contrast, as Jin is changing into the ghost, and his Honorable uncle who taught him everything he knows has to essentially watch him turn into everything he told him not to be. The only real downsides this game has aren’t very big ones. The AI can be pretty dumb, but not dumb enough that either style of combat is made to be not fun. The animations can be a little sloppy sometimes, and once you are fully upgraded for stealth, the assassination animations really lack any variety. The lip sync in cut scenes is really sloppy, and the cutscenes in general (specifically outside of the main story) really lack any inspiration or interesting movement by the character models, they mostly just are standing there doing gestures at each other, which isn’t a big deal except that the side quest they showed at E3 2018 was much more interesting than any other side quest cut scene in the game. This has to be one of my favorite games I’ve ever played. It doesn’t quite have the same polish of games like RDR2 or TLoU, or even GoW, but at the end of the day it’s just fun to play. From the combat, to walking around the world following birds and foxes, the moment to moment gameplay is always immersive and fun. I fully recommend this game to anyone who enjoys open world actions games.

In my opinion it's a enjoyable game. The graphics are okay for the ps4 and the landscapes are just beautiful. The combat was pretty fun. Actually I had a lot of fun with the combat system and I can't clearly tell you why. The story is cool if you are into Samurai stuff, like the 武士道 (Bushido code), or you just have some backround knowledge about the mongolinvasion etc. but if not it's a okay story not overwhelming. But the whole exploration is just astonishing, in my opinion, it's fun and the lovely little details, like petting a fox, climbing up Shinto shrines, or just relaxing in an onzen makes it even much better. The sidequests gives us a look in diffrent personalities, which we meet in our revenge trip. Like the one with massako a women, who lost her whole family and has nothing else in her mind, than revenge for her family. And the Ishikawa storyline is cool too. It's kinda like Anakin vs Obi wan. The only thing I doesn't like is the whole camera stuff. It is annoying sometimes, like in from software games. But all in all a very decent game, that is a must buy, if you are interested in japanese culture or Samurai/Shinobi action.




It's a great game with fantastic graphics, that said it gets a bit repetitive and there's not much to find through exploring other than cosmetics, if it had a little more weight in its RPG mechanics and more rewarding exploration it would have been a 10.
Love the austetics love the combat system love the story Sucker punch really out did themselves this I highly recommend this game to people who love beautiful open world gameplay and flawless combat systems.
Beautiful game in a setting inspired by Japan. The world is nowhere near realistic, but it doesn't have to be - the game is super fun and shows you "romanticized" Japan, that most fans of The Rising Sun country will love. Story at the beginning is not too ambitious. And because of that I got way more than I was expecting at the end. If you love katana, Japanese cherry blossom and exploration - this game is for you. And even if you are not a huge fan of exploration, you will probably enjoy it - sword fight is so fun, and the story is way better than expected.


Overall the game is great. Graphics is amazing and also the gameplay. Some minor issues like repetitive quests and camera gets clunky during clmbat since there’s no lock-on option. Also, i think it would be better to have a skip option for cutscenes :)




GOTY. Does everything amazingly well. Innovative and fresh story to put it over the top. Made account just to review this game. One of the best games I've played.
This game is what a game is all about. You feel like a master samurai cutting through your enemies. Every combat encounter feels so satisfying to do and you are just begging for more. The sound design and graphics just create an atmosphere that you never want to leave and end up just living in the moment. I loved everything about this game and I am so glad that this was created. Best game to come home to after a long day of work and just start slashing up some Mongols invading your city.
Fascinating atmosphere of feudal Japan! Samurai vs invaders, battles and adventures, duty and honor. A stunning story of war and revenge from the perspective of a lonely warrior. Awesome!
Game is just stunning to be honest, the story is rich and most of the side stories are better than the main stories of most games. Graphically i think it is a masterpiece and there is detail everywhere you explore in the game.

This game is a masterpiece; engaging story, great combat system, stunning graphics and visuals, beautiful environment and huge world to explore. Ghost Of Tsushima is most deserving of 2020 Game Of The Year.
A really Good game with robust combat mechanics that is paired with beautiful aesthetics and gorgeous landscapes. The best Samurai game there currently is by far. The first act is the most enjoyable with good pacing, gripping mythic tales and the most stunning vistas. Starting from act two the game drags its heels a bit and runs a bit out of steam by act three. The story is solid and competently told however it is also very “by the numbers” and therefore becomes predictable and somewhat filled with cliches. If you have any love for feudal Japan, sword fighting or open world games play this.


Together with God of War, Days Gone and The Last of Us (Part 1), Ghost of Tsushima made me me so glad to have a PS4, best game I have played in a long long time, with a difficulty just perfect, beautiful samurai/ninja aesthetic, best game of 2020 hands down, CyberPunk 2077 will have trouble to win this year
Easily one of the best games I have ever played. The environment, the music, and the everything about this setting is done to extensive detail and it shows. Jin Sakai is an amazing character and the story knows how to pull the heartstrings. I was sure Cyberpunk 2077 was going to be game of the year before but now I need experience that before this masterpiece can be dethroned.


This is the best open-world action game to date since the release of The Witcher 3 Wild Hunt. Why?? Here are the reasons why: - Good Story. - Good Characters. - The best looking game to date. The colors, the graphics, EVERYTHING in terms of the visual aspect of the game looks GORGEOUS!! - The locations on the map are carefully crafted so as to not feel random or meaningless. - Spectacular gameplay and combat that keeps on being engaging throughout the whole game - Deep skill-tree. - Animals interact with you to lead you to interesting waypoints or side missions. - The amazing wind navigation feature. - The screen isn't filled with stupid markers here and there due to the absence of the HUD(Maximising emersion). - NO LEVELGATING NONSENSE!! (THANK YOU SUCKER PUNCH!!!!) - Has 4 enemy types with SEVERAL enemy subtypes that have their own move-sets. - Does not fill your map with meaningless side activities that make the game feel tedious. - Does not FORCE you to go through the side activities. - Amazing sounds/music/OST/Score. - Encourages you to explore. - Quests are rewarding. The not so good stuff: - Combat does not have the lock-on feature which can lead to weird situations when fighting the enemy. - A few questionable looking cutscenes here and there. Ghost Of Tsushima combines all of the best aspects of what a third-person open-world action game SHOULD BE, and molds it into a spectacular game. If not for the 2 gripes I had with this game, I would've given this game a 10/10. Sucker Punch, you have outdone yourself with possibly the best ending to the Playstation 4/4Pro generation!! Hold your head up high and be proud of your work. I cannot wait to see what you have in store for your next project!! Best of luck to the Sucker Punch team!!
Awesome game.When someone dies in the game (even a horse), you take this loss very seriously. The last battle with Shimura forces you to make a very important choice, which is primarily important for you, the players, to understand whether you are a dishonest Ghost or a Samurai who is guided only by honor.But all the extra tasks and stories about Tsushima are done terribly.

Jogo decepcionante pelo que eu esperava. A história é simples não é nada demais.. Algo que daria pra passar se o gameplay e o mundo aberto fossem bons, porém o jogo é mal feito, não tem física, vc escala algumas pedras e o personagens flutua sobre, a agua do game é porcamente feita, NPcs burros e cegos. Parece um jogo da ubsoft, mal feito genérico... Ponto positivo somente no combate após melhorias de armas... jogopra esquecer, compre em promoção... PSN: Edgard_1986
This game is stunning first off, but secondly the story is engaging and the gameplay is rewarding. Performing a successful parry that leads to a deadly combo is so gratifying. The standoffs and other parts of the gameplay gives the player the feeling that he/she is Samurai. I enjoyed Sekiro, however that game was extremely difficult at times. This game is still challenging, but does not have that Dark Souls failure system attached. Great game, highly recommended.
A great game that feels quite dated. Combat is extremely fun. The stance system and the various tools and skills you learn really help bring variety to the combat. Customization is cool, the open-world is breathtaking, and the story, while nothing really special, is satisfying. However, the stealth is simple and boring, with the AI being too predictable and exploitable. The transitions between cutscene and gameplay feel so last gen, and some of the animations during convo cutscenes are so barebone. There are also quite a number of glitches. NothIng game-breaking though, just immersion-breaking at times. It’s a great game to live out your samurai fantasies and I recommend it, but after seeing all the innovations other games this gen has made, it could feel dated at times.
В этой игре меня удивило с хорошей стороны все, начиная от музыкального сопровождения и дизайном карты до кат сцен и физики всего происходящего
Being a fan of the genre, I absolutely loved this game! The beautiful open world, the combat and story were all on point. Hoping there’s a 2nd game or at least a DLC. MAKE IT HAPPEN SUCKER PUNCH!

Wonderful game but we need more gear in the beginning coz i need to be a samorai


what a wonderful and beautiful looking game... i loved playing it and i will start a second playthrough. the gameplay is fun, the landscape is astonishing beautiful. with doom eternal my favourite games in this year! try it for yourself!


1. Graphics; 10/10 i like this style. 2. Gameplay; 10/10 i like this gameplay, is not something new but have good mechanic. Story; 9/10 if you like japan or samuri is perfect, if you don't is normal story line. Fun; 10/10 i just enjoy in this game.
Quality game with breathtaking visuals and combat that never gets old. Story lost me at some points but ended on a high, setting up for future installments. One problem is obviously the repetitive fox shrines and other checklist material that stands out as a negative in most open world games nowadays. But this game is brilliant and stands alongside TLOU2 as a powerful send off for the PS4!

Замечательное окружение, звуки и дизайн одежды! Получил настоящее эстетическое удовольствие!
It is an amazing game with a great and enjoyable story it has its bugs but they are very small the revenge story was very fun to pay and the character I awesome
Simply one of the most gorgeous games around. What a great way to close out the console generation. Plus I love open world games and the story is really well done, far more interesting than the typical, "should heroes kill" that we get in far too many stories of this type. Bravo to Sucker Punch for a job well done!
This game has to be the conversation as game of the year. Truly amazing all around. It makes you wonder why it took so long to have a game like this set in feudal Japan.
I just got the platinum trophy and I only hunt for the platinum when I enjoy the game. I'd give the game 9.5/10 but since I can't give 9.5 on Metacritic I give it a 10/10. I've always wanted to play as a Samurai in this era with an open-world to see how it was like back then, and fighting as a samurai (or ghost). This game nailed what was on my mind it delivered it as I expected it to be. This is must-play game for everyone.


I'm enjoying the game a great deal. In the middle of act 2. Couple negatives for me. 1. Triggering the wind and playing flute is the same button. Would like to prompt the wind anytime I would like to make sure I'm heading in right direction. Understand though. This is force you to explore. 2. Fells like missions are repetitive but again I understand. You're country is invaded and you have to retake forts, farms etc. Those missions would be repetitive again War. Bad guys here,go get them out.

As a Japanese, I sincerely say thank you to Sucker Punch for creating such a perfect samurai game. Playing this, I felt respect for Japanese samurai movies. Actually, I couldn't believe this game was developed by an American Studio, because I surely felt Japan from every aspect in it. Of course everything in this game is not historically correct, but Japanese samurai movies are too, so it's not a big issue. Especially its expression of battle with katana is astonishing. It perfectly appears "Tate(殺陣)", the battle in the movies. I've played a lot of Samurai games, but comparing with Japanese made games, this is undoubtedly one of the best.
In my opinion this is one of the greatest games of our generation. When you talk about sucker punch and the job that they did bringing us into this generation with First Son and then taking us home with Ghosts yea this is all-time great...if you want to know what this game is like, I’m assuming this is how the development Ghosts of Tsushima went.... Dev 1: Yo let’s take Witcher 3 and combine it with Assassins Creed Dev 2: Ok...but shouldn't we take all of the dumb BS out of Assassins Creed BS first? Dev 1: You right. Dev 2: Bet. GOTY.
Невообразимо красивая, атмосферная, сбалансированная между активностью и медитацией игра. Она вас не отпустит до конца истории, которая приземлённая и одновременно цепляющая.) Однозначно рекомендую к покупке!)
Gorgeous visuals and great combat but the open world side missions and story missions follow the same formula that a lot of these open world games have done in the past. For example: Follow the target without being noticed, clear enemy camps, save hostages without the enemy seeing you etc. While the game visually is a great example for late PS4 graphics I usually felt like I was playing an Assassin's Creed game from 10 years ago. Looks new, feels dated. The story is mediocre but passable. It's fine, I didnt expected much from the story. I enjoyed the game overall but I got tired of it around Act III. Good game, not great.


This game is pretty like nothing before. What you get from a 1st party game. Worth the money. Dont believe the reviews out there out giving it a score below 7 or 60%.
Most entertaining game that I have ever played. I don't want it to end. Story, Game play and fight, is just on point. And the visuals are breathtaking!! More of this in the future SP. Good job.
Beautiful environment, fun gameplay, joy of open world, amazing gameplay and interesting story. We have seen a lot of open world games, but a Samurai open world game, that's something new and was well made to the core. The game made a good representation of Samura culture and realistic people faces and outfits, along with its fun and addictive gameplay, this game is a must to play on ps4.
Just go get the game if you like open world gameplay and good graphics this is what the new Assassin's Creed games should have been : The pros: Graphics Sounds and music Story combat The cons: No lip sink for the Japanese DUB Gets a little bit repetitive Some minor glitches Most of the cutscenes are not cinematic Not much activates on the open world PlayStation exclusive wish this game was on PC Conclusion: This game is a dream come true I always wanted a samurai era open world setting I hope more gaming companies make games like this with improvements this gets a 8 wit an a Epic medal of honor.
One of the best games I’ve ever played. Breathtaking visuals and smooth, pleasurable gameplay. Awesome story. Slow start with a lot of background, but hang in there and the game sets you free.

Very impressive game, beautiful surroundings and a very rich environment, it's amazing what Sucker punch managed to do with this game, highly recommended

A absolute triumph. If you love anything Japanese and/or open world games this is for you! If this game doesnt get game of the year it's a absolute sabotage by salty last of us 2 woke idiots!
This game pushes its genre to perfection. The only reason I don't give it a 10 is because it does feel like it was intensively inspired by the latest Assassin's creed. I played the japanese dubbed version and to me this is helps make the game way more immersive. Game of the year?
This game could be so much more. Here are suggestions: -Increase predator skins required for upgrades and killing other animals can generate skins so the game will be much more exciting. -Different dual and boss mechanics, -NewGame+ -New weapons and specific abilities for them -Mythic monsters like kappa, demon... I know this game is histroy accuracy but release a seperate dlc won't affect the base game so much -Different missions design, just not keep tracking "Foot Steps" LOL xD -New combo for katana, replace the existing ones like increasing damage, etc. -New mythic abilities like Thunder Swords, Poisonous Swords,... and more skills for BOW -Horse selections, horse skin, saddles
I've finished the game and basically done everything in the game for 4 days straight and i loved the game, There were some bugs but not game breaking bugs that i experienced such as when i killed somebody i clipped through a tent, but that only happened to me ones in my game play. Story was very great, both stealth & combat was great i liked the stance system and also that the game makes you explore for some charms and supplies.


Fantastic game and a really great way to close out the PS4 generation. The graphics and combat are simply amazing and the story is interesting enough to keep me playing. After getting burned out on AC Origins and Odyssey I was a bit skeptical on open world games but this game is much more fun. There isn't nearly as much nonsense filler as the AC games and the filler that is in there is generally better.
Incredible game! From start to finish, it’s a game where I found myself wanting to play more and more. Where towards the end where enemies that seemed so hard to kill in the beginning become so easy to slay at the end. And overall a game where you can feel like a true badass. 10/10 Game of the year in my opinion
Ghosts has some major presentation flaws, zoomed out cameras during dialog constantly, cookie cutter boring interiors, lack luster acting (IMO), zero creativity with the camera during dialog scenes. lack of UI customization, weak AI damage models (make everything bloody with no visual damage) except for the same right arm getting chopped off occasionally. Oh and the same NPC lady that you rescue 30 times. I love it but it definitely has issues. I have no issue with the critic score. The environment (world), fashion, and combat is great!
Love the game and would recommend it to anyone who asks me. The open world experience is what i call a masterpiece and game changer. Definitely GOTY for me. The story was awesome and you would not expect a westerner made it. Thank you for making it so good and hope to see more games like this in the future. Graphics 10 Gameplay 10 Story 10 Replay Value 10 Value for money 10





Game of the yeThe plot of this game absolutely deserves goty. The fight with mongol is only a secondary incident. The content is the transformation in people's minds. Of the opposition between neo and former, astray between right and wrong. Tragedy only comes from such small things, but mankind has no way out. No hyperbole, no color. jin is not the main type of brain dead cool, he is just a simple person enough to indign, with fate thrown into the whirlpool of war and betrayed his religious destiny. In his attitude and face, Jin is always full of doubt and agitation. But he still tried to crawl forward to accept his fate.ar , i rate 10
This is my first review in metacritic and I decided to voice out my opinion because I want more games like Ghost of Tsushima, and I really appreciate the no-nonsense approach by SP. I finished the main story, and already GoT is right there on top of my list of best games, with God of War, Spiderman and Horizon Zero dawn. My score is based on following: 1. Artistic direction and fantastic visuals, which really bring the feeling of the history. I think in general, artists are given far less credit than they deserve, and here I commend SP for forstering their talent in arts. 2. Excellent gameplay and combat mechanics, which are brought in at suitable pace. 3. A believable story, and solid structure. The game manages to capture the player at the very benginning so well, so you feel that you are proceeding with a good pace. Compared to say Death stranding, GoT is reallly good at the beginning. I have just gotten frustrated with the DS mechanics which are overly complicated. So there it is, a solid 10 for the game that tops my list of games in this console generation.
This game looks absolutely amazing. Ive been playing it on a regular PlayStation and it looks like a PS5 game. The story is great, all the characters are likeable, and the gameplay is so fun. Definitely a must play. Buy a new copy to support the developers.
Amazing game, the world is full of natural splendor and i love to explore it, the aesthetic is awesome. The gameplay itself is really good, full of interesting mechanics and you can play it the way you like, the history is mediocre, but the game is really fun and motivates you to experience different mechanics and explorate the world. I would like it more if the game had more variety in weapons and the graphics could be a little bit better in certain aspects. Overall i would give 95100.


A true contender of Game of the Year and a worthy Swan Song for the PlayStation 4. Sucker Punch studio really shows their maturity with this game. Great writing, amazing open world, breathtaking picturesque sceneries, topped off with one of the best swordplay combat system out there. Not to mention the purposefully absence HUD UI that tend to clutter your screen with any open world games. In Ghost, the world is your indicator and it's absolutely refreshing. No hidden agenda to push, no unnecessary social justice preach, and overall just a plain pure fun game to play. Congrats Sucker Punch!
I've been waiting for this game ever since it was announced in 2018. Even though Suckerpunch did not reveal many things about the game up until its release, it made me more excited for what was to come. I can with full confidence say that I enjoyed the game thoroughly and am now on a second playthrough. Since I am a story buff, I love playing games with a really good story in them. Ghost of Tsushima delivered a cinema-worthy story that I will remember for a long time, which also included some noteworthy teachings about the perspective of honor, sacrifice and legacy. I really hope that this can become a long-standing IP on the same levels of Assassins' Creed. I'll be honest, combat took a while to get used to, more so since I played through the whole game on Hard difficulty. The enemies are brutal in the beginning of the game, since one would have to get used to the combat system. But after involving oneself a bit more into the combat, as well as unlocking new techniques and tools, the game becomes easier to play, as well as more fluid. This will then result in a much more enjoyable combat experience. Whether you want to play as a honorable samurai, a fallen ronin, or a stealthy ninja; this game got you covered. To get a glimpse of what combat fluidity can look like in this game, I recommend watching the recent Youtube videos made by Youtubers such as Swifty Unknown and THE GAMER EYES. The graphics are absolutely STUNNING! I am not a huge graphics enthusiast, but even I got to say that this game is absolutely beautiful. Almost every place and scene in this game is screenshot-worthy, especially with the Photo Mode that exists in the game. As evidenced by the already many pictures submitted by the community, this game does not skip a single beat when it comes to the aesthetics. That being said, I noticed the game still has a few bugs related to movement of the character, but not a complete game breaker since they rarely ever happen. Some side quests can be a bit repetitive in their objectives, but they all also have their own story. As a conclusion, I recommend any person into the samurai/ninja fantasy to pick this up immediately. It's a beautiful game with a gripping story and thrilling combat. No Mercy!
Давно таких проектов не было и тематика хорошая и реализация на отличном уровне. Этоиконечно не реальность, но а зачем нам в играх реальность. Этл мир грез.

amazing this game, landscape postcard, the game is fun, reminds me of red dead 2(without gun) in samurai mode. Not regret my purchase, no pre-order because of a recent disappointment (last of us2)

This game is sooo goood and a joy to play! Love the combat and the graphics are too good to be true. Can’t wait to get back home and play some more! Great job sucker punch you guys really did good on this one.
this game is so freaking fun! The stances , the fighting, the japanese culture, it never gets boring. All the world findings , so much to do , so much to collect. It feels like you really are a samurai. And you just want to scream banzai!!! Charging up to the mongols to slay them. I never fast travelled once and i never ran past mobs. I just love the fighting. Game of the year. And the art is so beautiful!!!

Отличная игра, идеально подобранный сеттинг, красивая боевая система, где ты ощущаешь себя самураем. Очень красивые пейзажи и графика. Классные сюжетные твисты, а концовка никого не оставит равнодушным. Сюжет очень понравился. Видны попытки разработчиков сделать катсцены похожими на фильмы Куросавы. Сложность ощущается и в особенности на боссах. В общем не игра, а конфетка.
Ghost Of Tsushima is a great game and gets a lot of things right. The combat is a breath of fresh air, it has the traditional video game sword fighting and bow mechanics, but also introduces new combat elements that keep the game feeling fresh. The story and writing is good overall but feels like it is lacking in some areas. The game can be difficult at times, but isn’t especially punishing, which prevents frustration. All in all, the game looks and plays beautifully making it one of my favorite games in 2020.
Es un buen juego con una historia buena graficos hermosos y buenos diseños de personajes pero una de las criticas q tengo son los bugs hay muchos bugs
Absolute legend of a game. The exploring segment was highly organic with the fox and the bird guiding me so I keep doing side quests instead of main ones because of that. The art style is highly artistic and true to the era during the invasion of Japan. I had my skepticism because SP never made a game like this but I’m proud to say I’m wrong. Combat was awesome with the stances and how well it flowed. I felt like a true samurai. Stealth was more on the ok side but I mean it’s a samurai game we are talking about..... BUSHIDO ALL DAY!
One of the best games I’ve ever played! From the story, graphics, combat and side missions, this game is FLAWLESS! Definitely recommended!!

Jogo do ano. Ele arrasa quanto se trata de gráficos, de jogabilidade e história. O jogo, a fotografia do jogo... que fotografia linda. O mundo aberto nesse jogo foi muito bem explorado, cheia de variações pra fazer no jogo, o que me deixa completamente satisfeito jogando. Nem parece um jogo, parece um filme de tao bem feito os gráficos são. Um jogo perfeito, to torcendo pra ganhar o Goty. O modo batalha desse jogo é muito bem feito, ele não trava consegue muitas variações de golpes maneiros, o jogo é completamente satisfatório e lindo por si só, pra mim ele entra na disputa como um dos melhores jogos do ano. Completamente satisfatório, gráficos realistas, sistema de batalha funciona muito bem, mundo aberto bastante bem explorativo e fotografia linda até mais. Resumindo, o melhor jogo do ano, meus parabéns Sony vocês arrasaram.


Acabei de platinar esse jogo, e que jogo fantástico, minhas 3 últimas platinas foram FF7, TLOU2 e agora GOT, sinceramente 3 jogos que estarão concorrendo ao GOTY 2020 e quem ganhar será merecidíssimo. Parabéns

Many who complained about bring nothing to the table is absolutely wrong does not have right to be a critic cause it refines many things in open world like 1.leveling system is removed 2. high level enemies are not just sponges they become aggressive and better combat techniques 3.Beautiful open world 4.Not Best but good story 5. Combat is top level cause of hit registration 6.side content is superb tales are best how the real life events are exaggerated in stories 7. Upgrades are meaningful. Cons 1.Sometimes u feel like assets are overly used 2.stealth is ok not so much impressed
Great Game !!! SUCKER PUNCH did the homework.Open world and views are amazing ...you can feel like you really in these old times as playing JIN.Story is good maybe stealth isn't the best on the market but hey..This game has loads of fun to offer.Its sucked me in like a frickin' wormhole .

Best open world game in 2020. It's like Witcher 3 in Japanese era. Combat is extremely satisfying and exploring tsushima is simply amazing. Artistic direction is a marvel and the narrative is interesting to makes you relate with the story. Must buy for anyone who like action adventure open world setup.
Already Player more than 20 hours and am barely on Act 2 of the game. It might get repetitive if you play too many side quests but just give it a 2-3 days rest and you'll be enjoying it as much as day one again.
I play just about everything. This is easily top 3 best "open world" games I've ever played. Play it on Hard. It absolutely has the best combat of any by a large margin. I've never felt more badass in a game. Current critic metascore is 83 - look, that's a great score, but it's in a league apart from other games with similar ratings. Personally, I liked it more than Breath of the Wild (which I'd rate mid 80s largely for lack of challenge) and about on par with Witcher 3 (combat in Ghost is far better, but you can't beat the story and breadth of content in Witcher 3). This game is THAT good.
Ghost of Tsushima isn’t the best game in the world, if you have a problem with certain bugs, mediocre story and characters that don’t have much charisma, I think you won’t like Ghost of Tsushima. But in gameplay aspects, items and abilities progression, graphics, photo mode, fine story (yeah, i said the story is mediocre, but sometimes, the story is kinda cool), you will like it like me. In Brazil (i am Brazilian, so, if my english is bad, sorry for that) some youtubers did reviews of GOT (Ghost of Tsushima) focusing in the bad things of this game. As i made the preorder, I’ve got really sad thinking: “I bought a bad game”. So, when the game released here, I realized that the game isn’t as bad as in the Youtubers reviews. Honestly, for me is a really good game. I don't think the game worth it for the price they are selling now, but, if you wait some sale in Playstation Store, i think it would worth it.
Sony and SP have done something truly special with Ghosts of Tsushima. This game shows that User and Critics don't have the same view as to which games deserve a 10 out of 10 rating , Ghost is not doing anything new but it's pushing the limit as to what the current generation ( PS4) can do and is fun to play.
For me this game is the game of the year. Game audio is so great. 3D audio made this even better. Its step up from other games I played. GRAPHIC. game graphic are good. But they are not as good as last of us 2..but the way developers used all the colors in this game. Looks Next Gen. There were so many times. Where I forgot what I was doing... because every time you go to New place in this game. You see for beauty. Story is great in this game. I love Jin Sakai and his acting.i think he was great 90%time. All other characters in this game. They nailed thier acting make this game great. I loved Yuna, Taka and norio. Combat in his game. Is the best part of the game. I never felt that I'm tired of this. I always wanted more. Gane had Few bugs which let me do for few minutes. But it didn't effect my experience. I give this game 10/10 Game Of The Year For Me


Although there are some annoying bugs, the game is still fun to play. The graphic is amazing and the combat is brutal, definitely a must-buy game on ps4 in 2020!
Holy Cow this is an AWESOME Game, what a way to send of the PS4 to retirement before the PS5 arrives, the last exclusive PS4 Game and its a Firework, an sbolute Blast to Play! Superb Visuals, Superb Sound (including Music) Awesome Combat Mechanics, super dense Antmosphere, once started to play, its damn hard to put the Controller down! The lack of a HUD makes the whole experience extremly immersive, the Map is HUGE and fun to explore, Side Missions and Main Missions are well thought and engaging, its like watching one of those great Samurai Movies but here YOU are in Controll! Is it Flawless? No, there are some minor issues here and there (like very minor Framedrops), but the keyword here is *minor* those absolutely dont take away anything from the greatness that this game is! This is a MUST buy for everyone who owns a PS4, Congratulations Sucker Punch, you delivered a 10/10 MASTERPIECE, my personal Game of the Year!

This game is amazing. It has a great story, a fantastic soundtrack, great combat mechanics and a awesome world to explore. The voice acting in this game is amazing and nothing feels repetitive. This game, for me, is the Game of the year. I just finished it and obtained the platinum trophy, and I can’t wait to beat it again. It’s that damn good.
Just created account just to write a few good words about this game. There is nothing super innovative in this game in terms of mechanics or graphics or anything like that -- nothing you haven't seen before, but everything that is good about open-world and samurai/ninja games has been crafted nicely into this package. The quality is exceptional. The story is awesome. The side quests are so interesting that you actually want to spend time completing them all! Until now I never bothered with any side quest of any other game, period! Here I just want to do the side quests before jumping on the main story, so that the experience does end too soon! This game is more like a high quality TV series, where there is the main plot, and lots of awesome mini-stories that popup in each new episode. Trully amazing! I am not a hardcore gamer, or anything like that. I finished a few of PS4 major games this year: Doom Eternal, FF7 Remake, TLOU2. Until now, the three games that I thought were the most awesome of the generation were Death Stranding, FF7 Remake and Sekiro because of innovation and/or amazing story and graphics. I would shy away from praising TLOU2 too much because of too much controversy although the gameplay was really great and the story and graphics were also pretty good. This game, however, is something else! The medieval Japan setting is something that is universally loved. The acting is very high in quality. The game is just fun to play. I am surprised the critics gave this game a lower score than it deserves. The game is definitely the best way to end the generation. Ghost of Tsushima is open-world done right! It is probably the best open-world game ever made. It's probably the best medieval Japan samurai/ninja game ever made. In sharp contrast I would put Days Gone, which is open-world done wrong. After recently trying Days Gone I decided maybe open-world sucks after all, but then Ghost of Tsushima comes along and proves that you can do it right!!! OK enough, please go ahead and play this amazing game.
Amazing games with great graphics, solid gameplay and good story. The only thing I wish they added were visible arrows still in the enemy and the flaming bows would actually change the environment the landed in( grass burnt down)
If you like open world type games this is one of the best games of that type to get, honestly one of the best experiences from start to finish and I enjoyed it so much I decided to earn the platinum trophy.
This game is absolutely a masterpiece. The only complaint I have is that it doesn't have a lock on system which sometimes causes me to lose the standoffs. The historical accuracy of this is incredible. The aesthetic is amazing. The game looks incredible and the multiple sidequests that are tales are each intricate and well written. Absolute banger and should be highly considered for game of the year over TLOU2.
Ghost of Tsushima is an excellent new game in the historical fiction genre. The story tells an easy-to-follow journey about a samurai who must break his code of honor in a desperate attempt to stay alive and save as many Japanese as he can. Exploration and side quests both offer a variety of possible rewards to enhance the experience. The melee combat requires some precise timing, but it is less demanding than Sekiro. At some point, every player will experience some trouble with the camera and the lack of a lock-on feature. Patience and better positioning can alleviate the camera issues, though. There are plenty of upgrades to armor and abilities to make you feel like a god among men. Enjoy the spacious land and its gorgeous set pieces.





Laugh, cry, suspense, joy, this game has it all cool main character, excellent secondary characters, awesome gameplay, amazing narrative......truly a masterpiece....can't wait for a DLC

There is only one flaw only — the content is not diverse and complexing enough to be a great open world game. But the immersive art design and fascinating combat machanics definitely make it one of the greatest history-action game ever made.
This game is truly something! I wasn't expecting less. The world is art is completely beautiful, I was oftenly stopping by beautiful landscapes to take LOOOTS of pictures. And the soundtrack is just fit and pleasant to hear during combats and key scenes and even world exploring and discovering. The combat starts kinda simple, but as soon as you advance and get new Postures and new items it becomes harder and needs more and more skills, the enemies get stronger along you too, and I love how the game keeps adding skills and items to the gameplay until the very end and how these skills and items actually fit the plot. The plot is a 10/10 there's no unlogical decisions, no high schooler morals, no cringy stuff, just how a samurai breaks his code to protect his ppl in the most effective way saving the most posible lives despite the fact of losing his "honor" and his place as a Samurai. SP did it big this time, cuz we all know they got some of the most underrated yet amazing games (a.k.a. inFamous series), but Ghost Of Tsushima won't be ever underrated that im sure!
jogo realmente muito bom, graficos nao sao os mais perfeitos, porem casa muito bem com a tematica e ambientação do jogo, combate muito bem feito, historia maravilhosa que respeita muito a historia sendo uma coias rara pra esse tipo de midia, alguns bugs aqui e ali e a IA é um pouco fraca entre tando ainda sim é o melhor jogo do ano
This is the best game I’ve ever played. It’s what it must of been like to be the first generation of people to get the holy bible. We don’t even know what we just witnessed.


The Open World Samurai Game we've all been waiting for, Ghost of Tsushima delievers after the long anticipated wait. Before I say anything I want to preface that while this game doesnt exactly bring anything ground breakingly new to the table it shines with the polish of its foundation. Graphics GoS has got to be one of the most beautiful games I've played on console period. This game gives PC games a run for their money as many times a session I found myself just exploring the vast landscapes of 13th Century Japan just to take in the beauty of the world crafted by Sucker Punch Games. Whether it be surveying the damage caused by the Mongol Invaders, to the calm rocky beach shores of Japan, to the beautiful fields of flowers packed with color, this is one of the only few games that I have played where I sometimes have to stop in-game to take in the scenery of it all and even though there is fast travel I found myself not using it due to the beauty of the island. They did a really magnificent job with the world and atmosphere of this game and its actually astonishing how they managed to do it on a console at the end of its Generation. The media tools included in the Photo Mode are also exquisite and I already have tons of screenshots saved using all the options included within it. Combat There are 2 ways to play - Samurai or Ghost. Ghost is more catered towards Assassins Creed type of Gameplay where you can dispose of enemies with ease by assassinating them using all the assassins tools(smoke bombs, firecrackers, bombs, etc) at your disposal. This makes the game feel very easy and it makes clearing outposts a breeze. Samurai is my preferred way to play the game as it makes the game and combat more challanging. I would suggest playing on Hard as this makes playing this way feel more rewarding. Playing as a Samurai means fighting with honor and honor includes fighting your oppenent in a fair fight.....even if the odds seem unfavorable. You are able to challenge enemies to a standoff where you have to time your strike to slash your opponent in one hit(the number of opponents can increase with a certain item(s) later on in the game). There are different types of Stances which are all used to help you with certain types of enemies which actually do make a difference during combat. You can't just spam during combat if you play on the harder difficulty as you will be punished with 1 to 3 hits so patience is key. There is your usual parrying, blocking, and dodging mixed with unblockable attacks but it keeps you on your toes as you can be overwhelmed very easily when you are surrounded by enemies. There are also different armors and charms you can get throught the game which can give you stat boosts, to extra resources when gathering, or even just some extra consumables; whatever playstyle you want to play Ghost of Tsushima has you covered. Music The music in this game is amazing and it really helps the atmosphere take that step to the next level. Hearing the pounding of the Taiko drums whilst im surrounded by Mongols makes you really feel like a Samurai with the pounding only getting more intense with each opponent takedown. The game had 2 Composers working on the Soundtrack and boy does it show. The sound layering used in this game is second to none and it really gives the world more life even during the invasion. Story You play as Jin Sakai of Clan Sakai as the Mongols invade your homeland of Tsushima. Jin must gather his allies while picking up new techniques along the way to defeat the Mongols, but these new techniques cause conflict within Jin. What lengths will Jin go in order to protect his homeland and the people who cant defend themselves? The internal struggle between honor and survival is very present throught the game and what is a Samurai if without honor? The characters were very enjoyable and believeable as I found myself wanting to do the next mission in each of the Characters side quests to find out more about them. The effects that war and loss have on people can truly lead them down a path of twists and turns that turn them into something they dont recongnize when they look in the mirror and this game keeps me reminded of the unpredictability of human nature. Ghost of Tsushima is a MUST play if you ask me. This game takes every element and aspect of open worlds games and polishes it till its shining like its brand new while blending it together with one of, if not, the most beautiful open worlds there is to date and also adding a technical combat system on-top really makes you feel like a Seasoned Samurai Warrior exploring the world of Japan under Siege, taking in the lush beauty of it all but staying on your toes as you never know what situation will present itself next. Ghost of Tsushima is a Masterpiece and kudos to Sucker Punch Games for sending off the PS4 right and leaving a better taste in my mouth to end off the consoles lifespan.




Игра 10/10 . Игра с хорошим сюжетом , с хорошей боёвкой , зацепила с первых минут игры . На моё мнение «игра года»
I love this game. The graphics are amazing, and scenery is like a moving painting. The combat is fun and satisfying. It allows creativity in approaching each battle. The exploration is very rewarding, and I find myself wanting to clear out all the Mongol camps and visit all the secret locations. The story, while a Japanese feudal period archetype, is presented well, and keeps the players' interest. The characters also allows the players to be invested in them. Sucker Punch delivers an amazing 13th century Japan, and one can tell they have great respect for Japanese culture and samurai cinema. The dev also respects the player and the player's time. No unnecessary animations for each item pickup. Loading times are ridiculously short (~5 seconds). Guiding wind and other fox/bird companions are done very creatively, and results in an immersive world. Highest recommendation for the game! Now, time for me to go write some haiku...

This game is outstanding, the combat is pure amazing, from beginning to the final tale is very delivered, the story is simple but amazing at the same time, there is some side mission that always connested with main story even the mini quest, the graphic is one of the best i’ve ever played, the most outstanding is the combat system, it’s just like sekiro, nioh, assassins creed, horizon zero dawn combined, the minus of this game is when the game come to an end, it means the game is over
The game was amazing!!!! Has to be a candidate for game of the year. Every interaction had a purpose and nothing was every the same as you progress in the game. You were able to fight numerous different ways
It's the best game i player. The open world it's beautiful and the story i think it's excellent most on the final but i loved all of it. The graphic it's perfect and i love the old japan


Not a perfect game, but still a "masterpiece". This easily is my second favourite PS4 exclusive just below God of War. Pure fun, tight fighting gameplay, humble yet epic story and probably the best soundtrack in recent game history. There's room for a lot of improvement such as facial animation, cutscenes, stealth AI, etc. Can't wait for a sequel. Sucker Punch has built a solid foundation and can only grow from here.




absolut a fun game with great time to put in. Me and my friends had a lot of fun playing through the game. graphic are great and beautiful. combat is great and the story feels good from a historical perspektiv. I will recommend this game :)


Sucker Punch has absolutely out done themselves. It's not unfair to call Ghost of Tsushima one of the best looking games of the generation, or one of the best looking games Sony's ever put out. It's beautiful in ways that are a bit more subtle than the slightly over done anime style of something like FF7R while still being fantastic. I really can't say enough nice things about Ghost of Tsushima. It's a lovingly authentic tribute to chanbara cinema in general, and the works of Akira Kurosawa in particular. With a very enjoyable combat system backing an excellent series of stories there's a lot of narrative depth in the game that it feels like gaming hasn't approached in awhile. There's a lack of comic relief in the game compared to other games in it's genre and weight class, but it's absence isn't felt thanks to the down time provided by the many other activities in the game. Going from furious and tense battles against the invading Mongol army or against bandits or wandering ronin, to doing something a bit more peaceful such as composing a haiku, following a fox to a hidden shrine, or just traversing the lovingly crafted world that Sucker Punch has provided is relaxing in a way that I haven't felt since Breath of the Wild, which also very effectively used down time to relax the player. With emotional, deeply personal writing, intelligent, insightful characters and some rather solid moral questions to ask both it's protagonist and you the player, it's no surprise that the game was an actual tear jerker at times. That's quality emotional impact right there. I don't think it's unfair to say there's something for everyone in Ghost and I have any complaints it's that it doesn't stick around long enough. Here's hoping there's some Witcher 3 style expansion packs. With this game as a crowning gem on the twilight of this generation, I'm very interested to see what the dawn brings (beyond Cyberpunk 2077). A new breeze drifts in Bringing the end of an age The horizon looms
Spoiler free I can happily say good bye to my ps4 and welcome the ps5 after playing this game!! It was amazing!! Astoundingly beautiful! And it removed the bad taste in my mouth from the last of us 2 and restored my faith in good enjoyable games! (probably never gonna restore my faith in naughty dog though, never buying one of their games again) While the game did some things PERFECTLY! It did do som other things at a mediocre level and I totally get it!! A game that beautiful, that good, that fun and enjoyable on such old hardware is bound to have some sacrifices The combat was superb! At the beginning i thought it may benefit from a lockon on different characters but after finishing the game I understand why they didn't The samurai combat is fluid and strong and you frequently one shot enemys and need the ability to move around more One thing i did find kind of hilarious is that the AI for enemys Isent that great but it gets better later on! I played the game on the hard difficulty and even then it felt really easy (this is probably because i do all the side quests first) The armour is also beautiful! Such nice designs and progression and dyes! This game could benefit from a more in-depth merchant-customer interaction other than upgrading your swords and bows - simmilar to the witcher 3 but not as big and indepth! The side quests felt like main missions on their own and i loved them! The main story was also AMAZING with a fantastic ending!! BUT! They could of definitely made it better! Alot better! Just little things! The flash backs with your uncle were such a nice touch and if those were implemented with other characters like ryuzo or your father it would of been great! A little more in touch with the story If the main story had built up a little more suspense it would of been fantastic! Honestly this game and how it was handled is a 10/10 for me, right up there with horizon zero dawn and god of war and sekiro and red dead redemption Its worth the price tag (this is one of the only games i say that about) Do not hesitate in buying it because you will love it, play it on hard difficulty for more enjoyment A few minority have said the game is racist This game is not racist and does not force any racist or political agendas (like the last of us 2) The Japanese people absolutely love this game (sold out there), the western people love this game, its depiction is respectful and does justice to japans beauty and history This is humanities history and having an interest in humanities history gives you the right to delve in and make the past a reality through a video game Do not make up problems when there aren't any. Great work sucker punch! You're at the top of my list! Creating a sequel on the ps5 would be incredible though (im already excited for horizon zero dawn! Lets hope they dont butcher it like the last of us 2) Im not sure how you'd structure a story after that ending but i'd love to see your try! Maybe going to the mainland? On shogun territory itself? Or maybe the game dosent need a sequel at all!
an incredible game, quite extensive and versatile. sometimes with repetitiveness in battles but with a lot of maps and stories to discover, the landscapes and detail are surprising, respect for culture and tradition teaches us throughout the game.
Been playing literally nonstop for 7 hours it never gets boring map is huuge tons of fun


Wow! Just wow! An amazing game! The graphic is very nice, but the coloring and structures are exceptional. The game play is awesome, too, as there are so many ways to play this game, from stealth to straight up duel for honor. If anything, this game has too many techniques, lol, too many combos and techniques. The guiding wind, bird and fox are definitely uniquely new as never seen it before in any game. The story line is captivating from beginning to end. The only thing I wish is Sucker Punch patch to allow cut scene to be skip so 2nd time around, it will be faster :)
Un juego excelente Historia 10/10 Muy divertido , las misiones secuandarias muy variadas Los graficos maravillosos aunque en creo que en play 4 estara limitado si salga para pc sera un juegazo.


The environment is one of the best out there. The colors on all the plants and trees really stand out. Probably one of the most beautiful games I've ever played
The graphics are amazing, the gameplay mechanics although a bit buggy and repetitive are fun. The problem is with everything else The story isn't that amazing, the difficulty is beyond easy and the AI is insanely stupid, facial expressions are terrible as well But still a worthwhile experience, exploration is fun, and the world doesn't feel empty.
The ghost of tsushima is stuning everything you experience from sword fighthing to side qeust was enjoyable and meaningful to find armor to gain new techniques this game is definitely worth youre money 10/10
Sucker Punch Studios has really outdone themselves this time with Ghost of Tsushima. For my review, I am going to discuss the gameplay, music, graphics, and story. First of all, the gameplay is probably some of Sucker Punch’s greatest work. The four stance mechanics of the Samurai combined with the Ghost stealth mechanics creates a game with a combat system that has depth to it without being too complex. The game is also fairly challenging due to this, as you have to use the right stances along with timing your moves carefully to defeat different types of enemies. The music is also amazing, from songs that convey sad moments, to intense combat situations the music of Ghost of Tsushima has a theme for every mood that sets the stage for some of the games most powerful moments. This music, along with some of the most beautiful graphics I have ever seen get produced from my PS4 creates a wonder narrative about the Mongol invasion of Japan. The story I can also attest is good, as it follows the story of Jin Sakai, who with his allies, fight to liberate the Mongol Army form Japan. The stories greatest strength comes from all these characters, as you learn there stories as you help them, see how they grow, and how this all affects Jin by the end of the story. Ghost of Tsushima is a 10/10 Masterpiece. A must buy for PS4 and a must play for all Gamers.
I gave a standing ovation at the ending. The action, graphics, and scenarios were great. It would have been better if AI was smarter and could add to the tension.



This is the best game I played this Jan 2020 until now. At first I thought this game is like AC games but no. For me the story is great and the graphics too. I think this game can be a candidate on the game of the year. It is a must play game.
I think ghost of Tsushima definitely has potential for GOTY it’s so amazing I love the story and the combat also the world is just stunning and you will spend a lot of time in photo mode just enjoying the view. One of my favorite things were the mythical tales it just gets you so lost in an amazing story that’s completely different for each one. This game is a must play highly recommend.
After an awful experience with the Last of Us II (my only pre ordered game in last 10 years and biggest disappointing PS exclusive), I am glad that Ghost of Tsushima turned out to be an awesome game. I felt good about spending money on this game. I loved Jin's character. This was my first Samurai game and I absolutely loved playing it. I enjoyed the mechanics, felt very engaging combat and love the stand off option. Story is good. A lot of things to do and it's absolutely gorgeous (although for me, Horizon Zero Dawn remains the most beautiful game so far). It's good to see high Metacritic User score which means other people also enjoyed this game as much as I did.
Cinematic visuals, polished combat system, seamless open-world progression, and compelling story. Nothing feels tedious, even the abundance of side quests and activities.

A brilliant game, definitely my game of the year so far. The moments of reflection in the game are a nice change, the side quest never feel like busy work. An open world that is gorgeous and makes you want to explore it.
I wish I could give it higher than a 10. Easily the best game I've played in 10+ years. Have recommended to everyone I know, the game is amazing and I can't say I've ran into any game breaking bugs. Love the story, love the swords and bows aspect, and the graphics+game play go unmatched. I feel like I was part of this world. No inserted politics just a dgood game

As I type thisl am watching the credits roll and have to whole heartedly profess that no game has ever had me in tears like this game just did. Thank you Sucker Punch. You have created (for me personally) such an emotionally engaging masterpiece like no other game I have played before. From the visually stunning environment(s), perfectly chosen & created music and sounds, to the wonderfully written story and in-depth character building that has made for one of the best, so far, games I ever have played. I truly enjoyed every and all aspects of this game.


I have earned the platinum trophy in this game and once you have reached this level there is nothing to do but fight a couple of bandits you crash into here and there, but if there was a new game plus I wouldn't have this problem only then would I have given this a 10
Ghost of tsushima is the best game that I played this year mainly because of the colourful open world and how fun it is to play the game and is worth it to spend lot of hours into the game unlike the other game that I know which was a sequel that I waited for 7 years and the game was disappointing a little at least the second half of the game
I feel like this score is a bit high. TEN THOUSAND REVIEWS already...on a first party game? These reviews are either bots or bought because I'm not buying it---and I'm a fan of Playstation and purchased the game, and enjoying it! I just want to give an honest review. I loved the open world and combat, and the graphics are pretty good if that's your thing, but it has never been a must for me. The story is a little cliche' at times, which is where the score comes down for me, because that tends to be the most important factor in my book. This game is a SOLID 7-7.5 but 9.3 is people spamming it with false reviews. It's nothing revolutionary but it does what it does decently well.
A beautiful Open world game. Im about 4 hours of game play. Love the colorfull scenary. The battle is so good. The story is great. i dont want to finish playing. Trying to save the game play as i am having fun and enjoying the gameplay.
Finally finished the game last night. Probably spent about 45 to 50 hours doing every little thing. Now the game isn’t perfect the combat felt a little clunky at times and the use of the R2 button to switch stances sometimes made my character jump or dodge side to side cause I’m assuming I’m pressing everything to fast. My only big problem the side mission and most of the activities got repetitive towards the middle of the game. But there were a few gems of smaller missions tho. With that being said tho everything else is amazing. The main story, the characters and seeing how Jin transforms through out the game was amazing to see. And visually this game is something else. I could literally just find a nice spot just to soak up the amazing graphics and art direction. Honestly I can’t remember the last time I played a game so beautiful and it’s all so detailed, closet game I can think of is RD2 but something about GoS art direction gives it a slight edge. The game does start off slow but once it’s running it doesn’t stop and lets you free to however you want to play. By the end you feel like a samurai/ninja. Highly recommend it to any PS4 players.
If I had to summarize this game in one word it’d be: FUN! The most fun I’ve had playing a game in a long time. Not only that - the story pays homage to the samurai genre but wisely doesn’t get trapped in predictable tropes. Perhaps best of all - it brilliantly tells a story that is nuanced, culturally appropriate, respectful, and engaging. I love seeing newer media storytelling not stereotype or impose a western framework of character and culture into a foreign land. They nailed giving a feeling of authenticity. For me, the core relationships in this game are extremely memorable which I’ll remember fondly and motivations felt truthful. The combat in this game is so good and has some of the most badass moments in recent gaming. I really enjoyed side quests and all battles, sieges, and duels. Lastly, this game fully utilizes the open world format and its beautiful atmosphere, and landscapes encourage exploration more than any game I’ve played. The disappearing UI design should become a new standard for exploration-based open world games. It was easy to just ride your horse and continuously discover new things throughout the world. Highly recommend! Here’s to more! Great job, Sucker Punch!!

Just finished with the game and got my platinum trophy. This game is an absolute must for every ps4 user. It has beautiful graphics, a cool story, a lot of things to explore, one of the best in the genre. I'm ready for Ghost of Tsushima 2. Combat is badass with every perk you really feel and see the difference. The camera sucks sometimes but all in all a very good game. Thank you Sucker Punch for this nice experience.


大社！大社！我說大社！ 遊戲畫面美得令人屏息，並且許多任務都非常的有日本武士劇的感覺。主角的戰鬼架勢讓人感覺帥的一逼。我很喜歡他們對於「懦夫」這個詞的定義。主角在剛開始對於斬殺背對的敵人感到躊躇，但逐漸他明白，滿口正義卻什麼都不敢做的才是真正的懦夫。
Game of the year candidate for sure! The small tweaks that have been added to the single player open world gameplay allow this game to run smoothly through the beautiful landscape.

The game doesn't try to be revolutionary, which isn't a bad thing at all (don't fix what ain't broken). But what it does is done so well, that is has simply become my favourite game. The gameplay is so fun, and the story is so engaging. This game is a breath of fresh air and a wind of change into the right direction (pun intended).
A perfect send off to an awesome console. Ghost of Tsushima a love letter to Akira Kurosawa's films. The game is an art piece! The graphics and sound design are blended perfectly together creating a beautiful world. I have never been so immersed in a games world, something about the particle effects, colors etc. give me so many chills. Thanks for such a beautiful game Sucker Punch! I highly recommend this game!

This game absolutely blew me away, I was in tears by the end of it. The story and characters were deep and interesting, combat made you feel like a one-man Mongolian whooping army, and all of the collectibles had tangible rewards. 10/10 would be samurai Batman again.



Good Job Sucker Punch! I enjoyed every bit of this game until it goes to the extent that i am forcing myself to play this game slowly so i could continue to enjoy it for a long time. Witcher was my best of the year and no doubt you guys delivered an open world game just like it! using an awesome japanese setting. Kudos to the use of sword stances, ghost mechanics & excellent polish on the quest stories to make it not boring! (although its still mostly a go there kill that quest) but how you guys tied it to the plot makes it great!
I am loving the game! The art, the characters, the story, and the combat. Sucker Punch has made the most beautiful game I have ever played. There could be some improvements in the small details, but as a full package, I have nothing to complain about this world.
The World is fun to explore, a lot of things to do you'll get yourself lost in the map the graphics are really beautiful, This is my game of the year so far as i mostly play JRPGS, this is a good change of pace
Ghost Of Tsushima is an amazing game :) the world is so beautiful & characters are great . The combat is so fun & even though at times it can be repetitive but the thrill of dodging & parrying my enemies felt amazing & rewarding . I thought we could of gotten better character development with Ryuzo but I enjoy this game so much!

I've loved everything about this game since I started playing last week. The camera was a little odd initially but with the combat mechanics and the number of opponents you have to face it makes most sense not to have a lockon system. Haven't quite finished it yet as I'm trying to make it last as long as possible! Easily Game of the Year for me!
GOTY for me. Absolutely beautiful, amazing combat and story. Been following this GOT since it’s first trailer, not only did it deliver on the hype it surpassed it
I thought it is just another good open world game. But now.. I think it is almost new game genre - "fluid open world". It is in my top10-games-ever list. I play on hard and I have to utilize all kinds of skills to survive. However I wasn't able to beat first duel-story-boss on hard.. I really want NewGame+ added to be able to beat him on hard finally..
Simply just a beautiful and well written game. Combat is amazing, definitely a step up from Sucker Punches past games like ps3's Infamous. Characters are very well designed and intricate. So, far I am really loving the entirety of ACT 1.
Note, I was initially not interested in buying this game, my wife actually wanted it for our anniversary. But after trying it, all I can say is that this is by far the best game if gotten my hands on in the past year or two, for me personally at least. The story can be a bit generic and predictable, and the Japanese voice over does not match the the mouth movement, but the gameplay, the combat and scenery is just amazing. Enough so for me to give a full 10,this is just such a pleasure to play.
Holy hell! Haven’t finished the game yet but I have never felt this way about a game before where I couldn’t put down my damn controller!! I WANT to spend more and more time! Sucker Punch you killed it!! :)

I love this game so much. The world is as immersive as BOTW and I love the pacing of the story. It reminds me of a Rockstar game like GTA or RDR I’m the way you progress the story with characters you meet along the way while you choose which story to continue next. The combat is so exciting and the stance changes keep it fresh and not just spamming parry/ button mashing. The armor customization leaves a lot of room for creativity. I cannot express enough just how much fun I am having with this game. So far, GOTY for me
Amazing Game the world is so beautiful, combat is fast and flawless. Animations are so good. The parkour is amazing but I think the animations for the parkour need a little bit of polishing, but that isn’t anything major just something that bugs me a little. I highly recommend to get this game. This is basically an Assassins Creed game set in feudal Japan just without any Assassins Creed lore and it has nothing to do with Assassins Creed. I love how you can choose to play as a Samurai and just burst into battle or be sneaky as the ghost and you don’t have to make a choice or anything it just depends on what your feeling like at that time. I highly recommend Ghost Of Tsushima.
Los graficos, la historia, el gameplay, todo es increible en este juego. El detalle de no tener ningun indicador y ser todo muy organico le da otro toque de genialidad justo al grandioso modo Kurhosawa
Been long time never felt this way since days gone...thought that I enjoy any game so much this year. Well it's one of the best game for ps4. Definitely a golden.
One of the best games ever created. Itll leave you speechless and totally immersed for years to come. Love it!!!
This is a GREAT game. Beautiful graphics, the story is great and it's a breath of fresh air from all the modern world games. I love the fact that the game is set in Feudal Japan!!!


The play station exclusive we’ve been waiting for! The game is stunningly beautiful, very well rewarded exploration, deep and very fun combat that offers many options and never gets old. AI is ver bad though, can sometimes make stealth not fun. The story offers many cool memorable moments but also suffers of bad writing sometimes, it’s a decent-good story overall. Great game!
Depois do God Of War eu não tinha me divertido tanto com um game, e Ghost Of Tsushima me proporcionou isso, o gráfico é muito bom, lindas paisagens no mapa, apesar de pequenos deslizes com relação a texturas e a água que eu achei um pouco feia, poderia ser mais bonita mas eu até entendo a dificuldade em se fazer um gráfico beirando a perfeição em um mundo aberto. O combate desse jogo é simplesmente fantástico e é muito louco dar uma flechada em chamas num inimigo ou jogar uma Kunai no pescoço dele hahaha. História principal e contos eu tbm adorei, embora não tenha terminado o game ainda, mas o que joguei já gostei demais. Pra mim é fácil um game nota 8 talvez até 9. Sony fechou a geração Playstation com chave de ouro. Playstation é qualidade não adianta.
Absolutely love this game!! It's not perfect, as nothing is, but an amazing experience, epic precise challenging combat, and an amazingly beautiful game. After playing it for around 20 hours I actually restarted a fresh game since I wanted to use the knowledge I gained in those 20 hours and approach the game differently from the start. Already past the point I previously reached and still loving every moment of the experience!! Here's hoping for a sequel or the start of a new franchise (like AC...the epic game that became less epic over time)
The most Beautiful game ever made Very fun game i love the story and Characters this is the best samurai game i ever played one of my favourite game of this generation in short PERFECT GAME
One of the greatest games of all time, in the top ten list for me. Beautifully crafted, endless adventure, never a dull moment. Best purchase I’ve made towards a video game in a long while. Comparable to Zelda Breath of the Wild, Jedi Fallen Order (Parry Combat) and RDR2. I’m hoping they will keep updating the game With larger maps, more quests and further expansion for years to come!

GoT does all the little things right and I’ve been waiting for a game like this, something I’m not able to just put down. People often compare GoT to the Assassin’s Creed Series, and while it does bear some resemblance (to the earlier releases), it does AC better with its pacing and storytelling. This isn’t a perfect game but it does come close just short of a few points. What went right: Pacing and storytelling. The game divides the island of Tsushima into 3 parts where you will progressively unlock as you dive deeper into the game, Instead of throwing you into a vast open world, as compared to AC odyssey/ origins. This prevents the game from being too overwhelming and I didn’t felt lost about what to do next at all times. Majority of the side quests aren’t cookie cutter “fetch” quest but “tales” of key NPCs’ backstories. I find this way of “questing” really engaging and makes us fall in love with each of the characters even more, it truly gave me a deep sense of purpose to sidetrack and see how their side story unfolds. Gameplay Instead of the meaningless & shallow loot gear system in AC, SP made the point for you to stick with the same gear since day 1 and upgrade them as you progress through the game. It was extremely rewarding to see all of my gear fully upgraded and I really felt that Jin was getting stronger, though more like the terminator than a samurai when he was fully decked out. All of the gameplay mechanics aren’t revolutionary, but it was refined and I absolutely loved the lack of an HUD, GPS lines, map markers on your screen because i was truly immersed in 1274 Japan. Combat: Combat was satisfying, each stab and slash was weighty and you could really feel that impact. You have a wide range of gadgets & weapons at your disposal and no 2 combat scenarios are the same if you truly explore all of Jin’s Arsenal. Audio & soundtrack I played the game in Japanese voice over, voice acting was superb and the soundtrack was just brilliant. You could really feel Jin’s blade slicing and dicing through the thick armor of the Mongols. Graphics The graphics was so beautiful SP even gave you a screenshot button on your D-pad to capture stunning images in game. Absolutely stunning visuals even on such old hardware, especially the foliage, grass and scenery. Water physics was a little low end but I understand there are limitations of the PS4. Loading time Game loads as if I’m using an SSD, but it’s still the same HDD in my PS4 since day 1 5 years ago. What could have gone better Facial animation at times was abit stiff and using the Jap voice over means that the facial animation will never be in sync (as it was animated to English). Some animations were also abit buggy, it wasn’t game breaking but definitely noticeable. Such as stealth kills, mountain scaling and combat. Sometimes dead enemies will pass through walls. The standoff Mechanic is extremely O.P. once you get the hang of it and upgraded it. I felt that it should be an RNG thing instead where sometimes the Mongols would just swarm you instead. Enemy AI It’s 2020 and still stealth Mechanics in games are so easily exploitable. Enemies see their dead friends, walk around for abit and then act as if nothing happened. I tried not to abuse it because it was really funny and ruined the experience for me. Gore option I felt that to truly express the savage killings and brutality between the mongols and Japan in ancient times, there should be an option to toggle dismemberment / gruesome scenes. Performance I can’t really tell if it’s because my PS4 is 5 years old and aging but I do notice the occasional stutters here and there especially when there’s an epic fight going on. Overall This is one of the best games I’ve played in a long time and I’ve truly enjoyed my time in GoT. It’s not a perfect game but it does come close. The fact that this was so unexpected from Sucker Punch was what made GoT, for me such a stellar and outstanding game of 2020. They have certainly raised the bar in the open world action genre and I will be waiting patiently for the next big title from SP.
A truly outstanding game. It's a little rough around the edges, with some occasionally annoying encounter designs, and visual glitches. However, the overall experience with the combat, story and the characters was just fantastic. I'd easily give this a 9.5 but I can't. The combat deserves special mention. Imo it's the best combat for an an open world RPG ever, possibly at least. Yes God of War 2018 had awesome combat too, but let's face the Blades of Chaos are kinda OP and the game lost a lot of it's methodical precision that came with the axe. Horizon had more fun/diversified combat. But I think Ghost stands above all of them.
i have no regrets pre-ordering the game. The story, the level of details on a graphical perspective and the combat mechanics are all exceptional. I have predicted sekiro last year to be the GOTY. I am sure Ghost of Tsushima will grab 2020 GOTY. It's very good that Ghost of Tsushima saved PS4 after Last of Us Part II. A really good way ending PS4's legacy in 2020.

Uns dos melhores jogos a qual joguei, gráficos muito bons para fim de geração, boa história, bom entretenimento, tu se perde em tudo que se pode fazer e nas paisagens. Jogo foda.
a great game, really fun, taking itself for a samurai the beauty of the settings are just magnificent I really enjoy myself despite some camera problems, the scenario a classic but very effective I haven't had so much fun in a long time.
Fantastic game. The fighting system is great. The story is emotional and allows for you to form connections with and through the characters you meet. And it's jusr the right amount of hard to provide a good challenge so you don't breeze through the game but doesn't make beating enemies impossible


This may very well be the best game on PS4. The atmosphere, both visual and sonore, simply are the best i have seen in a game! The main story is captivating and the side stories are subtle. The main protagonist has charisma while the supporting characters are interesting. There are bugs and the AI isn’t very bright but the amazing atmosphere (when you are playing, you really are in Japan) and the captivating story (the building of the ghost’s is exhilarating) make easily forget these little issues. Finally, the world is huge. After more than 20 hours, I haven’t explored more than 20% of the map. Overall ghost of Tsushima is the best game on PS4. Horizon and Witcher 3 are just behind.
50 hours in, I'm watching the credits roll, and all I'm thinking about is starting all over again. Just a phenomenal game. If you look at the features of the game on paper, it sounds very similar to other open world games, but everything here is just better. It is incredible for a game of this length to manage to keep reaching new levels of cool on a regular basis as the bloody story of revenge plays out and the Ghost unlocks more and more terrifying abilities. Speaking of which, the ability to terrify your enemies during combat is pure joy. I make each death as spectacularly gory as possible just so I can delight in the sight of another Mongol giving out a frightened yelp, throwing down his weapons, and sprinting away full speed into the hills of Tsushima. I love how throughout 90% of the game, there wasn't a single HUD element on-screen, and I rarely got lost. The guiding wind system that blows gusts of wind in the direction of your objective is a stroke of genius. The magical birds and foxes that guide you to collectibles and shrines are delightful. Exploring a world hasn't been this satisfying since Breath of the Wild. I spent hours walking slowly through the mountains of Japan to find secluded hot springs where I could reflect on my journey, or a perch where I could compose a sorrowful haiku. This is a game made with love and you feel that playing it.
Excelente juego, la ambientacion es asombrosa y la historia esta genial, pero lo que mas disfrute fue perderme en su mundo abierto y el combate, 100% recomendado.

Un gioco che prende le meccaniche da altri titoli ma riesce a farle funzionare bene, combattendo system molto divertente e che richiede un alta concentrazione in alcuni momenti. La storia è abbastanza carina, ma è l'ambientazione a rendere tutto magico, un gioco vecchio ma nuovo , senza alcuna pretesa ma che stupisce. Complimenti a sucker punch, lo sto amando.
The game has some technical problems with character movement and texture, but nothing that spoiled my experience. The combat mechanics are incredible, especially when playing in hard mode. The set of scenarios, application of winds and historical period create an incredible immersion! It was an incredible experience and I look forward to more games like this or even a sequel!

Sim, o game precisava de um bom polimento na física e nos gráficos para ficar "perfeito"; mas mesmo com alguns defeitos visuais e outros poucos de jogabilidade, darei a minha nota 10 nesse jogo (colocando ele nos meus top 10 jogos favoritos). A história pode ser considerada rasa por alguns, mas se você prestar a atenção nas cenas e missões, verá que a exploração da cultura oriental japonesa foi muito bem apresentada, nos proporcionando uma gigantesca imersão. A evolução da mentalidade e dos atos do Jin ao longo da história também são um forte, pois nos mostra até onde os limites humanos chegam em um estado de guerra e crueldade. Outra coisa fundamental para o aprofundamento na cultura e na história de Tsushima são as missões secundárias e exploração do mapa, que acabam nos designando à incríveis diálogos e interações que nos mostram um pouco mais das origens e rotina do povo local. Entre essas descobertas podemos ver desde a história das guerras e conflitos da ilha, até a formação de vilas e clãs samurai desde o início. Falando da jogabilidade, muitas pessoas relataram frequentes bugs, porém eu em 39 horas de jogo, não cheguei a presenciar nem se quer um único bug. Sobre o combate, digo que está sensacional. A imersão das posturas e movimentos é muito boa, e a dificuldade é perfeita para uma gameplay equilibrada. Joguei o jogo no hard (maior dificuldade) e achei bem desafiador e divertido. A variedade de armas, equipamentos e ataques também é um ponto alto, nos oferecndo gameplays incríveis de diferentes estilos, seja "rushando" ou se esgueirando pelas sombras. A dublagem e efeitos sonoros como a própria trilha sonora musical, estão sensacionais em todos os idiomas, aumentando ainda mais a imersão. Os sentimentos estão muito bem definidos pelas músicas e pelo ambiente, o que acaba te fazendo se sentir no lugar do Jin até nos momentos mais tristes (ou felizes). O Jogo também é repleto de atividades e colecionáveis para explorar e coletar após o término da história principal, logo, é um prato cheio para quem procura um jogo bem completo e que te dê uma experiência longa para passar o tempo. A cultura de Tsushima e as suas histórias mais sombrias durante a invasão de Khan e seu império mongol te esperam nessa aventura tão imersiva e viciante. Tome o lugar de Jin, o último samurai do clã Sakai, que terá de honrar o seu clã e lutar para libertar a sua casa dos invasores. Enfrente difíceis decisões e obstáculos para chegar até o Khan e ter a sua libertação; mas não será fácil, já que ele utilizará da fraqueza econômica e política da ilha para se unir a ladrões e conquistar Tsushima, formando uma milícia perigosa e imbatível (ou quase). Te vejo na luta por Tsushima, guerreiro(a)!

Ghost of Tsushima is the perfect swan song for this console generation - a game that combines all the best aspects of 2010's gaming and reminds us what it feels like when a game's goal is to just fill you with joy. GoT is hands down the most beautiful game I have ever seen in my life, every frame feels like a gorgeous painting and the superb photo mode allows you to get lost in this world for hours without even playing it. The world itself is amazingly constructed, the protagonist Jin's connection with nature and the way the world guides you through a natural process of discovery which constantly gives you more reasons to keep going, are just on another level. The gameplay is superb, the combat, free roam and even partially the stealth all work amazingly and you truly feel like a bad-ass samurai warrior every step of the way through the 15-ish hour story which, in the spirit of classic samurai movies, tells a compelling tale that serves as a great backbone for a dip into an astonishing world. Everything in the game is almost perfect... almost. The only real problem the game has is it's hit or miss stealth system which is obviously less advanced than the incredible combat and the fact that towards the end of the game, there is an unfortunate focus on stealth missions which just don't feel as tight as the rest of the game. The only other tiny problem the game has are some physics bugs that I started experiencing towards the end of my playthrough - nothing game breaking or too annoying but still a small issue. Despite these small problems I still felt like giving the game a 10/10 when the credits rolled, but then I thought about it and realized that GoT can be better, a little better, but still, it has room for improvement and I want to see that happen in a future sequel. That is why I'm giving this masterpiece a 9/10 (maybe even a light 9.5) P.S. Major bonus points for a well thought out and fun trophy list - this is what a AAA trophy list should look like.

The fighting mechanics and gameplay are tons of fun, It did take a bit to master the gameplay and fighting stances but once mastered I became unstoppable. The map is huge and there is alot to explore wich I love. I find myself stearing towards side missions and looking for enemies to take out. The photo mode is amazing. U get lost playing around in photo mode, because there's alot of possibilities tons of customization.

Jogo graficamente LINDO fora alguns detalhes como carroças queimadas. A história é muito boa mas não ousada, os roteiristas foram conservadores ao escrever. Personagens secundários marcantes, incríveis e muito bem explorado. A gameplay é o ponto forte do jogo, o jogo simplesmente não enjoa pois a gampelay é fluida e muito divertida a cada momento. O jogo não é um "horse simulator" devido as viagens rápidas. Pontos negativos: O jogo tem problemas técnicos como qualquer outro com bugs, mas (pelo menos na minha experiencia) isso não foi um ofensor na experiência do game, o jogo continua espetacular com tantos outros pontos positivos que os bugs acabam sendo perdoáveis.
Extremely beautiful world, an emotional main story and some amazing side quests, the most satisfying combat system that cannot be explained, but must be experienced, this is truly the best samurai game, but also the best ninja game. Not a perfect but no game is so, 10 out of 10
beautiful game! amazing graphics!, and a deep satisfying story on a open world. This game deserves all the praised that is given. Sucked punch have outdone themselves.
I think this is my favourite game, that I'e ever played. Red Dead is amazing, Death Stranding superb, Uncharted is awesome fun, Last of Us 2 is phenomenal, but Tsushima... is all of that wrapped up in the most graphically beautiful game and package I've ever seen. I love it so much I made a Metacritic account just to write a review about it. I can't remember the last time I had so much fun playing a game. I've waited and waited for a game like this, set in feudal Japan that isn't mystical, isn't ridiculous like Sekiro and just focuses on great story telling, beautiful graphics and wickedly fun combat. I'm only halfway through (I think) but I'm afraid to finish it because I never want to stop playing it. There better be a Ghost of Tsushima TWO being planned... since I feel like there won't be any DLC. Great job Sucker Punch, great job.

One of the best games ever with great visuals that’s actually a feast for the eye. Very enjoyable gameplay, can’t escape the repetitions Of open word games but at least it’s done in an interesting world. The mapping of some of the extra moves more than it should to be done or at least changed from certain type to another. But the over all experience is great, one of the generation best games


I absolutely love every bit of it. The best game by far! The way you fight with each opponent using different stances is really interesting and new. Graphics are amazing and the cinematography for each story, especially those told by the musician, is just breathtaking. Really recommend this game!
a beautiful game I play for recommendation and I loved They took a long time to release another ps4 title but the wait was worth it. The story is amazing and it reminds me of classic Japanese cinema, the music is very immersive and memorable, the graphics are mind-blowing and photo mode is like a dream

it is the GOTY and i hope all the games r like that only made for entertainment free from any political and social problems free from hidden agendas
Beautiful graphics, lived in open world that doesn't force you to grind so that you can continue the story. Speaking of which, it's magnificent, very human and extremely reletable. Jin Sakai stands shoulder to shoulder with Nathan Drake, Alloy and Kratos as the greatest PS characters. Excellent job Sucker punch, what a send off for the PS4. I can't wait for your next masterpiece.
Y con esto debería darse un buen ejemplo, una historia sin incluir nada acerca de lo políticamente correcto, que sigan produciendo más cosas como esta
This game has such a bitte sweet story. For me personally, it reaches my favorite game of all time, The last of us 1 Ghost of Tsushima + The last of us #1
Ghost Of Tsushima is a landmark in gaming it is fun,beautiful and engaging I enjoy the voice acting the story is good not the most interesting but good enough combat is a little bit hard to learn at firat but when you do it is fun this is the first sucker punch game I play but I have to say I will check out infamous series after this
Never has their been a game where I focused solely on the side missions as much as Gjost of Tsushima. Horizon Zero Dawn would be my closest comparison if I had to choose a game (Not a bad one at that). The color pallet, the combat, the story, everything is more than I expected and SOME. Brilliant game. Will be considered one of the best ps4 games of all time

This game has amazing visuals, really fun combat system that incorporates traditional stances and an amazing sound track. story was good but not GREAT story telling like god of war and last of us, also after playing god of wars 0 loading screens/cuts experience it didn't feel as much as an experience, with all the black screen between each cut scene, dialogue etc. over all great package and may be contender for goty in my eyes.


If you gave this game under a 5 or over an 8 your lying! Game is overrated struggling to keep my attention. Not bad, not great either. I paid $70 so I’m going to try and see it thru. Honestly the game is a solid 8. Waiting for a sale is the smart move!
The tsushima Ghost combat is incredibly fun and the movement of characters and horses is very fluid, but the game contains a lot of bugs, although I never caught any. The story of the game is not impressive, however I was very pleased with the game and extremely fun the world of it never leaves you feeling empty the game is also full of activities to do and ways to play.
Внимание!, игру проходил на японском языке, с русскими субтитрами, так как считаю это момент крайне важным, ощущения от игры могут быть совершенно не такими, если воспользоваться полным переводом.! Отличная игра, прошел на одном дыхании (абсолютно все миссии, включая дополнения). Абсолютно все в игре плавно очаровывает, если вначале не совсем понятно в чем же вся прелесть, и графика на любителя, и бой стандартный, и сюжет завязка как во всех подобных играх. НО! потом по мере втягивания в игру, все начинает не просто преображаться, а по настоящему радовать во всех отношениях. В сюжете не смотря на всю понятность появляется много интересных, хорошо раскрытых персонажей, все очень разные, яркие, и с своими "тараканами" (причем ярко выражеными), Навыки прокачиваются, и бой становится очень интересным, разнообразным и быстрым. Графика если вначале и вызывала вопросы. То потом все эти цвета, звуки и мелочи окунают в отличную атмосферу самурайских фильмов. И как бы не было безразлично, но разочек другой рука так и тянется включить фильтр Куросавы. Количество все возможных навыков вне боя, а так же разных девайсов очень грамотно сбалансировано, также как и переключение между ними в динамике. Практически нет банальных сайд квестов, напоминает местами РДР2, ты заведомом знаешь что почти все миссии это - крушить монголов и разбойников, но обставлены они таким образом, что каждый раз тебе интересно причина появления такой мисси, и ее развязка, огромное количество неожиданных поворотов, сразу же понимаешь почему разработчики указывали на РДР как одну из игр вдохновителей. Много собирательств, и система поиска не слишком сложная, и напоминает чем то Человека Паука, что дает возможность собрать абсолютно все плюшки))) правда их так много, что время предется потратить хоть и не столько как в Одиссее (ох, лучше не вспоминать о ней), но точно не мало. Так же радует возможность организации облика героя, по цветам стилю и так далее. В общем Игра однозначно должна быть в коллекции, и обязательна к полному прохождению!
So to preface I like the game. I like it a lot. It's a great game with only certain technical issues that aren't really all that bad. It has some really flat texture work involving the world, strange collision issues here and there, and some stilted animation work. That said the game has some of the most satisfying combat I've played in a long time. It's definitely a ton of fun. It also has hella particle effects... like everywhere all the time. It can gorgeous but I'm also not a huge fan of the hyper saturated color pallette. Those are the only nitpicks I have about the game from a technical aspect. The game is also very orientalist. Making the samurai honor-bound morons. Their own tyranny and brutal combat tactics of the time are "condemned" and contextualized by Jin's "ghost" persona. It uses a bunch of historically spliced together themes, and set dressing - and it does all this with developers saying they weren't going for historical accuracy but instead based around Kurosawa's films... which it fails at. None of the characters save Yuna, and perhaps Masako really feel like characters from his films. Even then Masako feels like a facimile of a Kurosawa character. Further more the games attempt at plot and theming don't feel anything like a Kurosawa film either. So when you mix everything from what developers have stated their intentions were you don't really get that. What you get is the Western idea of what a samurai and what ancient Japan might be like. I studied a lot about Japanese cultural evolution and history in college. I have several native Japanese friends, and history teachers. I am also a massive Kurosawa fan. So going into this game I had low expectations about what I was getting. My only advice is that if you find this stuff cool? Please research it. Please don't take your history lesson or Japanese cultural heritage knowledge from this game. Samurai are pretty much regarded as **** and brutal warriors in Japan. In this game they are justice honor-bound idiots (which is why they lose to Mongols... when in history it was due to the technological divide war wise). All that said. If you go in expecting a Western take on what samurai are, and that it's not how actual Japan is/was/sees samurai anf their own history --- you're in for a treat. It really is THAT good. Just keep in mind that the game is inaccurate as hell, doesn't even really capture "samurai cinema" (btw film recommendations are Hara-Kiri, Seven Samurai, Yojimbo, Sanjuro and even Ran) Instead it feels like a less offensive and slightly more culturally researched Last Samurai.
This game was a lot of fun. Good story, and i liked the characters. The Open world was amazing. Its worth it. But not a 10/10 from me. Cause it has some problems, but its still worth it to play one time.
A true masterpiece! Half of the game size other AAA titles have. Close to no loading times. NPCs run at your speed an even go on horses if you do. Stunning visuals and so much more. Compared to the political mess TLOU2 is, this game simply delivers without adding stupid stuff. 10/10
Это лучшая игра эксклюзив в этом году пока что. Потому что она не претендует на крутой сюжет, который потом окажется дырявым. Это просто крутая игра с хорошими своими фишками, тика как игры от кодзимы. Игра хорошая, свои фишки есть, но это не супер драма на веки. Я полностью присоединяюсь к этому протесту против Игрожуров, которые обсирают ту игру, которая не ставит перед собой высоких задач и не имеет бекраунда. Но вот как игра с огромным бекраундом и завышенными ожиданиями, просто обсирается в ноль, так игра супер крутая, игра века. Нет уж. Вот эту игру захейтили все игрожуры, которые хвалили долбанный LAST. Господа игрожуры, вы тут прикопались к тому, что в игре это не так или то не так, а вам нормально до заходит когда в LAST нужно к топору прикреплять затычку, чтобы она убивала с одного удара это нормально, да? Затычку к топору? Вот это нормально, да? Топор есть Топор! Продажные игрожуры

Шикарная ИГРА !!! Спасибо разработчики ! прошел игру, графика классная, сюжет - отличный!

I've created an account just to be able to leave a review. The game has surpassed my expectations (been waiting a long time for it), and it's up there in my list of top games, near Witcher 3 (and 2, but above Witcher 1, if I remember correctly). Gameplay, sound, graphics except for character models, are all top. The battle system seems simple, but it's still difficult to master (consistently). You can make it hard for you and restrict yourself to core moves, or (if you so desire) make it easy and unlock most trees. The side-quests are awesome; they're not copy-paste, and even if they are simple, are very rewarding in how they help "recover" the island from the invaders. The only downside, which made me really think between 9 and 10, is the character models. They seem "aged" compared to the rest of the graphics (which is really awesome), but the ultra-fast load times made me ignore than, in the end. So, 9 or 10? No game, or only very few, are really a 10, but looking at what I've played in the last 6-9 months, this is definitely the top, so it gets a 10 from me. 9.5 would be my actual rating, but one can't rate that, so… 10 :) Play and enjoy!
A very good game, and fills a rarely touched niche of Samurai games, especially for a western dev. Everything is fairly fluid and the visuals are absolutely gorgeous. The combat is flashy and punchy, but is a bit too simple for its own good, particularly for a game of this length. By the time you reach the second section of Tsushima island, you will be incredibly overpowered and capable of demolishing most encounters, and the game does fairly little to challenge you from there on out. As an open world game, Tsushima shoots for the Horizon Zero Dawn method of "if it ain't broke don't fix it". It's a fairly generic open world structure; you take over enemy encampments, run random tasks for the inhabitants, and find points of interest to get cosmetics and various upgrades and items. Some aspects of the game are a bit buggy or unpolished. The camera can become a monster in close quarter encounters; you may end up looking at the middle of a clipped-through tree while Jin gets wailed on by people you can't see or dodge. This isn't usually a problem in open plains or more spacious villages, but fighting indoors or in the denser wooded sections can be genuinely impossible at times. Fighting works pretty well usually, but you will have to adapt to a weird and stiff pseudo-lock on system. Jin will face an enemy, and begin moving slowly, and it can be a bit sluggish to jerk him out of that to target another enemy that's further away. Archery feels great, but drawing and knocking is inconsistent. If you press R2 too quickly after L2, Jin will just sit there and wait for you to repress R2. On that note, R2 is used far too much for context sensitive actions, crawl into a stealth area? R2. Pick up items? R2. Talk to people? R2. Grapple onto something? R2. Pull up your quick swap menus? R2. This all works ok, but can get awkward when you're collecting items and instead your menu comes up and slows it all down. It feels poorly thought out. Overall these gameplay issues are fairly minor, but they will cause some annoyance pretty regularly. The side content is consistently passable, although the mythic quests are particularly good. The general structure of most content is talk to a peasant, go do thing for them, oh no! They lied about something! Go tell them they shouldn't do that and get your reward. It's not very interesting but the combat and exploration is fun enough to carry it. The mythic quests bring a little more intrigue, usually bringing in some mystic or legendary elements and have much better set pieces about on par with the main story. All in all, Sucker Punch set out to make a fun, polished, open world Kurosawa-esque samurai flick of a game, and they succeeded. It won't blow your mind very often, but it will suck you in with its setting and visuals. With a little more care, the combat could've stayed fresh throughout, and some of the padding could've been cut (we don't need to follow a fox for 20 seconds 49 different times, please and thank you) to make the stronger content really shine. I'd probably give this an 8.3 or 8.4, maybe an update will smooth out my issues and push this closer to a 9.


A great game with a beautiful world and decent story. The developers knews what they wanted to do and put all their love and energy into making this a great game with fantastic combat, good stealth and interesting characters
A fantastic game. Very fun and addicting combat and overall gameplay, beautiful graphics and scenery, and a story to pull your emotions and heartstrings in more than one direction. 10/10
I just finished getting my platinum trophy on Ghosts of Tsushima and wanted to write a quick review. First I will start with what may be the best part of the game – the world. It may not have to same level of minute detail that RDR2 does, but from an artistic stand point it may be the most beautiful open world I have seen. It is just like the trailers; fields of swaying pampas grass, tons of particle effects and beautiful colors. It really makes you want to explore it. The environmental puzzles were very well done. The music was also fantastic. The combat is fun a varied. My only complaint is that the controls can be a little unwieldy. There are 4 types of ranged weapons, each with multiple ammo types, 4 different quick throw options as well. I found switching through them more of a hassle than it was worth and just enjoyed the melee combat which is quite well done. You can play stealthily or head to head, though some missions shoe horn you into a specific style. For the most part though, you can pick a style you like and use it most of the time. The story and characters were enjoyable with some touching moments. I wanted to learn more about them and completing the side quests didn’t feel like a chore. There are a few too many auto fail stealth missions that aren’t that hard, but some got annoying. My main complaint with the game is that you can’t save outfits/loadouts. The main character, Jin, has a number of outfits that are better suited for different circumstances. He also has 6 charm slots that aid different elements of combat. On top of that there is a substantial amount of customization available. Having to manually rearrange things whenever I wanted or needed a different loadout got to be quite tedious by the end of the game. Overall this is a great game and worth your money. I was amazed at how well polished it was – I did not encounter any significant bugs or crashes.
I've been waiting 27 years for someone to do a Samurai game done right and Sucker Punch did it. Game blew my mind and far EXCEEDED all my expectations. You won't regret buying this game 10 times over. I loved every second of it and I'm still loving every second of it. I was like 20 hours in and only did 2 main quests xD
Preface: I finished the story today and got the platinum trophy. While the game isn't perfect it is a great send off for the PS4 era. I've played a lot of open world games so there wasn't a whole lot in Ghost of Tsushima that I didn't already see before somewhere else, however the setting in ancient Japan with Samurai was a nice change of pace as its not somewhere we get to visit very often in the video game world, at least not at this level. The setting and story were fresh, not all but some of the game play mechanics have been done many times before. Pros: Cinematic movie feel, great visuals and art direction, fluid and varied combat, very fast loading times. Cons: Questionable enemy AI at times, repetitive world activities, no true puzzles or mini-games. A solid 8/10 for me.


Initially wasn't sold on the game, it did honestly look cheap to me in the trailers especially with so much foliage making the bulk of the world but after spending 20+hrs in the game thus far, I've come to appreciate the beauty of what Sucker Punch as built, it reminds me so much of Japan and makes me want to revisit once this pandemic passes. The scale and the size of the world is massive and can be overwhelming at times, the story really sucked me in.

The problem with games is that post-new scenes are made very cheaply, and when the drama rises, the game takes a sharp brake, sending the player to grind further, this is a very bad tone.

I am into Japanese culture and this is likely to be my favourite Sony exclusive so far. I'd even put it on the first place among all the platforms among with Animal Crossing and Zelda series. The open world is really beautiful. Jin feels kind of overpowered, but it's not a big deal when I choose right perks.
Awesome game!!! I’ve got them all every game you can think of I’m telling you this game is AC Origins/Odyssey on steroids. Best combat in any game PERIOD love all the moves and stances. Love ending suffering lol my fave. Way more beautiful to look at than any AC game to date. Needs NEW GAME PLUS desperately tho!! Can’t give us a taste and leave it at that. I have the Ghost of Transcendent when you get for platinum trophy and here I thought oh that sucks I have nothing left to do but have the best armour variant in the game... then I started a new game and as soon as I got the ghost armour I got the variant/dye (ghost of transcendent) again!!! Nice job Sucker Punch never seen a game have that before. I got the outfit on all saves automatically now it’s awesome!!!! So kind new game plus’ish with 1 thing lol. But please update new game plus ASAP and throw us a DLC as quickly as possible before all the hypes gone. BUY THIS GAME BEST GAME THIS YEAR!!!
Top to bottom this is an awesome game full of great characters, vistas and most importantly, top notch gameplay. Loved the story and the way it's paced makes it hard to put down the controller. Best game I've played in some time and is my current goty
Loved this game! Waited for a good samurai game a really long time. Though it is historically incorrect in all the ways you can imagine, it is still an artful masterpiece. Visuals, music, gameplay, story. - Visuals and music are setting the mood here. Hyperbolic romanticisation of the beautiful Japanese landscapes. One scenery may contain multiple seasons: such as spring white sakura petals blended with autumn red and orange fallen leaves. But this is just so much fun to look at, especially with the impressive lighting. - Gameplay is interesting, and didn't feel boring at all, it actually made me wanting to take again the controller in my hands and try some new tactics, or to perfect the already existing one's. Wasn't a big fan of the stealth at first, but later on it got more interesting. There are 'flaws' to the so called AI, but these flaws are probably made so that the gameplay wouldn't feel tedious, imho. A lot of people said that this game is assassin's creed in Japan, maybe, but could never finished an ac game before (tried the 1st, 2nd, black flag and the odyssee, but they all were boring, please don't hate me for that) but GoT pulled me totally in (one day I was playing for 14 hours straight, and did't notice that it has already become 4 in the morning) - Story is what kept me engaged. The different series of substories made the world look lived in. Especially enjoyed the story of lady Masako. Just wish there was an explanation about the death of Jin's father, wanted to know more of Jin himself. And wished it had branching main story lines in chapter 3 (as there is in Witcher 2 game). I was actually hoping to some extend that the game would let me choose what choice to make at the end of chapter two, but the game made it for myself. Didn't give this game a 10/10 because didn't have that choice. But the story was actually very very interesting, didn't expect that all. I was emotionally moved a couple of times, and had chills running through my spine a couple of times (also during the Masako substory line). Not to complex, interesting, engaging, at times funny and at times really sad (most of times actually sad). But all the characters were quite memorable. Now hoping for the next Ghost of OtherJapaneseIsland game :p. There was a second Mongolian attempt to conquer Japan ;). Maybe in some other time period like the Warring States or the Meiji Revolution... Please But yeah, go and buy this game. Support games like this. This is a game for the gamer!
Best game I have ever tried for the PS4, fantastic mechanics and crazy settings, indescribable atmosphere and crazy storyline. You see the evolution of a character fought with himself and against his code of honor, but the road that leads to the end will make him a legend, good sucker punch, you have created one of the few titles that have excited me both as graphics that as setting and history


Jaw dropping visually and extremely engrossing and fun to play, these are the main reasons why we all play games and Ghost of Tsushima has these things by the ton. It is a very rare event in the life cycle of a console that a game as special as this comes along that impresses and moves the industry benchmarks forward. Generally open world games are rather fatiguing and dull but I cannot really find anything to **** about with this title except for some minor graphical nit picks about the camera and some animation issues etc. These little things do not detract from the overall experience in the least. I am a huge fan of Japanese art, culture and cinema and this wonderful game is a love letter to those things. You can just see that Sucker Punch have done these things justice and love these as well. I am a massive Kurosawa fan and playing this in the black and white Kurosawa mode is just like playing a movie and is a fun little distraction. Well done Sucker Punch I am so addicted to this gem of a game and have not been this impressed since God of War but in my opinion GOT is better and more enjoyable than that title and yes even Red Dead 2 as well. Incredible and highly recommended for all true gamers.
Everything you could want in a Samurai game. The fluid combat sets it apart. Makes you feel like a samurai. We Graphics are amazing and and the way character progression is done is unique. Awesome game.

Pure perfection! Not many games have given me the amount of goose bumps while playing it. GoT is amazing. It is not a typical open world either, it is a game that feels like the environment is alive. Good job Sucker Punch
Graphics: Epic. The best of PS4 in terms of visuals. The graphics are stylised unlike RDR2 which makes it feel more beautiful. Fighting mechanics: I went head on most of the time rather than stealth, The mechanics take some time to get used to but after a few hours it's awesome. World: The world is beautiful. You can take on many side quests to have a lot of fun(chasing a small fox to a place, yeahh!). Story: The most cool thing is that using your ghost abilities more apparently changes the weather. The story is epic.
Amazing game. This game has removed many irritating aspects of open world game which I think other open world developer should learn. Good upgrade path, good fast travel, horse can travel long distance without loosing stamina or a bike getting out of gas (witcher/days gone). Useful upgrades.
Absolutely phenomenal game. One of the best I’ve ever played and this game is easily the top 3 best PS4 exclusive games. Combat is outstanding and not repetitive since there are multiple stances to use for different enemy types and each combat style having an in depth skill tree. The open world itself can make you get lost in it which creates this great sense of immersion which has never really been done so well since Legend of Zelda: Breath of the wild. I would score this higher than a 10 if I could :)

It haves a pretty good music, A good history, Good Gameplay, you can not ask more from the game, the people that buy it, know that they got what they want.
The story sucks you into in an emotional experience. You can feel the emotions through the masterful voice-acting. The combat mechanics are intense, every encounter brings you to the edge of your seat. Environment is beautiful. My Game of the Year nominee.
One of the best game I’ve played in my life. The combat is brutal and so satisfying it doesn’t get boring. I platinumed it it was so absolutely incredible. The story is fantastic the ending will stay in my heart forever. This is a work of art and a masterpiece buy it!
Absolute masterpiece, Sucker Punch has reached the levels of CD Projekt Red with their endearing storytelling, gameplay and artistic direction. Incredible game to end this generation.
This is a great game, but it can the the best game of its generation if they quickly fix the camera issues. Other than that... We want more! We love the duels more duel fights please! Awesome job Sucker Punch.



Amazing work done by Sucker Punch, this game has great combat system, especially the weapon switching, clean and simply, might get a litter confuse switching from black powder bomb to sticky bomb but all it takes is time. The side quest get you through the whole island without feeling boring in between the main quests. The tale story is simply gorgeous, sort of like eastern Ink painting. This game worth every penny .
Fantastic game to end off current-gen exclusives for the Playstation 4. Not disappointed at all and even platinum’d the game. Truly a beautiful game and a once in a lifetime experience.
Visually stunning, engaging combat and wonderful progression system that keeps you coming back for more. A great game that falters only when it comes to mission variety and a colour by numbers story told many times before. If you’re a fan of Far Cry 4, Assassins Creed Odyssey then this game is for you.

Love this game. I am nearly at the end and I am in awe of the scenery, landscapes and atmosphere they managed to create. I haven't used many of the ghost weapons this time through but the sword and bow combat is amazing. I'm hoping for a ng+ mode in the future.

Absolutely magnificent game. Fantastic visuals, story, characters, sound design, score, combat, stealth, every aspect of it is almost flawless and I’m longing for more.
Ghost of Tsushima was a fantastic game from start to finish. No story spoilers but it made me emotional a few times and really excited to see where the story would lead. Besides some funkiness in some controls like climbing and trying to exit holes, I really enjoyed the game and would recommend it to all my friends.
Great game with amazing atmosphere, immersion, game play, and characters. Unlike a certain AAA game that fails at some of these. But this game deserves it's own spotlight that allows it to shine as it's own piece of art, mainly with the amount of realism with the Japanese culture.
Looks amazing. The world is beautiful, Combat is satisfying and the Story/Characters are great. Animations are meh sometimes but who cares if everything else is perfect.
It's definitely something you should play for yourself. By no means is it something I would rate a 9.5 or a 10 due to a few kinks such as the camera during combat situations, or how Jin Sakai can be a bit of a dull character, but It has some pretty good combat with some real challenge and an excellent story. Go ahead and pick it up if you feel like doing some cathartic sword slicing, petting red foxes or writing Haikus.
The game is pretty good. Just found chasing foxes a bit repetitive. I did not like the fact that my horse got killed. And that I had to kill so many dogs. Game had various bugs and glitchy mechanics. Game is very basic and gave no mental challenges. Decent game but not 10/10.
One of the best games I’ve played in a longgg time, if I had to choose any game, it would be this one. The last of us 2 was ok but a disgrace to the last of us series so that is going out the window. Ghost of tsushima is a recommendation from me to you.
Game is your typical open world. Ok story, good combat, and sketchy enemy AI. Its pretty. Its smooth. Its glitchy. At one point my Jin was running around with two broken arms hanging at his side. I have been shot with arrows through the sides of rock mountains. Good, fun game, but needs work.
This game is far form perfect but I have to say it is a breath of fresh air as of late. Here are a few things I did and did not enjoy about the game. Pros:excellent combat systems, well tuned difficulty settings, amazing landscapes, and well programmed quests. Cons:over use of one certain theme (the senseless murder of helpless women and children) throughout the game, chat between protagonist and random characters have chat bubble mistakes where protagonist is listed as a “peasant” before his lines.
Easily the most beautiful, breath taking, enjoyable game I’ve played in the ps4 era, words just can’t do this game justice you have to play it for yourself, the attention to detail and the combat is satisfying it just leaves you wanting more and more, haven’t been hooked on a game this hard since the Witcher 3. Within my top 3 by a mile, obviously had its bugs and Imperfections here and there but what open world game doesn’t? Also the insanely fast load times are worth mentioning especially for a game of this scale. Not even half way through the game yet and I’m already thinking about my next play through, an absolute master class in open world and samurai games, easy 10 for me.
This game beautifully represents samurai culture and emotions. Every side story you play has a different emotion. As a open world game, you would accept this game to be like a Assassins game, specifically like odyssey or origins which felt absolutely bleak, but this game does what almost no assassins game, or GTA game has done, it makes you feel for all its characters. Through the progression of story it makes you feel for its main characters, every characters motive seem absolutely justified. Most importantly this game makes you feel like a samurai and also a Ninja but it’s challenging combat also reminds that you are alone out in this island trying to kill other trained warriors. It successfully gives you a lesson on pride, it even tests you at key moments, if you are ready to give in your pride for the sake of your people or keep your pride for the death of your people. Next to The Last of us part 2 this game is absolutely Game of the year worthy and a must play. Game contains partial nudity and a whole lot of violence, maybe not par with the last of us part 2 but enough to make you think that you are reckless.
Loved this game. It's simply fun and a bit more like an AC game but with enough original ideas to take away, the been there done that, feel of an AC game. Plus who can argue about the cool theme? Some Pro reviews have noted the seeming contradictions of the Samurai code and the game breaking this code. It's a game. The writing also tries to deal with this dilemma. Is it perfectly dealt with? Probably not... but I don't care because it's a fun game. I don't expect games based on a historic theme to be 100% correct. I expect them to be fun to play. Heck, we had female soldiers in BFV. All good if that adds to your fun. Technically, the game is not perfect when it comes to some animations (eg looting) but again, I don't care. One thing I really noticed - the incredible fast load times for fast travel. 5 seconds at most for me. Not sure how they did that. After putting in 100+hrs into AC:Odyssey, where fast travel times were not that fast, this is one part of GoT I really loved, from a technical PoV. Cannot recommend this game enough!
One of the most engaging and gorgeous open world games. Better than breath of the wild. Worth a shot, recommend to any type of gamer. Even if souls type of games aren't your thing(this is not really a souls game imo)
A tribute to the Japanese nature and culture. Ghost of Tsushima manages to deviate from the ugly tropes of most open-world games by delivering a beautiful world with a solid narrative and great gameplay mechanics.
This game is actually really beautiful and pretty addicting . However no game is perfect it does have some bugs. But this story is quite fresh and good. Good games play. But most of the low rating are from woke people from last of us 2 who can't accept the fact . That this game I actually good. Japan actually like the game but American critics hate the game and calling racist and factual wrong . So they're trying to say that Japan hates the game. The hypocrisy is unreal. Such hypocrites.
Beautiful graphics, immersive gameplay, outstanding combat, relatable characters, and brilliant storytelling. Sucker Punch hit this one out of the park, and they're getting my 10/10 right along with it.
This game is Breathtaking. The story is so well paced and it all wraps up together so well. The game made me build relationships with each of the characters through the side character missions which helped pad out the story and character. There is so much greatness in this game, from the story the combat and oh my god the visuals, this has to be the best looking and stylistic PS4 game to date. SPOILER!!!!!!!!!!!!!! The ending of the game where you have to fight your uncle was excruciating and the final two choices had me stuck for which felt like hours deciding what fate I should leave him. I regretfully at the time chose To honour my uncles wishes and give him a honourable death, however the emotion in that ending had me choking on my words and in my opinion is the better of the two. The visuals of the game are outstanding with all the particle effects with the fallen leaves let’s you feel fully immersed in this world and is an actual enjoyable open world to adventure with lots of stuff to do. I also found myself just staring off into the distance admiring the visuals and not to forget about that amazing photo mode they have added into the game. The combat is a challenging and heart racing experience where the fluidity of the swordplay and different stances and parry moves you can pull off really put me on edge and felt amazing to play. However the camera is a struggle at times where I found myself indoors hoping that the person behind me didn’t attack as I could not see a thing or move my camera fast enough or at a good angle and because there is no lock on, although which I think would of hurt the game, it still made it hard to target the right enemies either way. Other than the camera that had me on the ropes 25% of the time this game is an outstanding achievement and I applaud sucker punch and everyone who worked on the game they have done an amazing job and undoubtedly, have created one of my favourite games of all time. Thank you to all the devs and everyone involved in making this game. You have made a masterpiece.
One of the best looking and best paced games I've ever seen. Unfortunately critics seem to think that this is a game that is too familiar. But I believe it to be much more of a experience compared to games like assasins creed which they like to compare it to.
A masterpiece in the the PS4 generation. Story, music, graphics and gameplay are all top notch. Some of minor bugs don't take away from the fact that this game is simply fantastic. I'm a good 30+ hours in and I can't stop playing.


This is the best open world game that anyone will ever experience. I have never done side missions but did all of them in this game because it rewards you for spending your time.


Only thing holding back 10 rating is a few minor bugs. One of the best game of this generation only behind witcher 3 and RDRD 2 for me. But cyberpunk 2077 will probably change that especially if it's as good as it looks so far. But all together its a fun 25+ hr game that's a lil challenging and visually stunning thru out
One of the best video games I have ever played. The transition from the honorable samurai to the desperate ghost who will do anything to save his people is satisfying, exciting, and epic. The visuals: 10/10 The Story: 10/10 The gameplay: 10/10 Not original, but the mechanics work really well and there is something so satisfying about building your character in this game. Video Game smoothness: 6/10 - lots of glitches/bugs; probably should not have played after Last of us 2 since the smoothness of that game is second to none. Must play.
Very Beautiful game! Stunning graphics and scenes combined with the beatiful music and soundtracks that blends so well during cutscenes, battles or while looking and enjoying the beautiful scenery. I really loved this game. the swords animation during battles are so awesome. I am SUPER enjoying the main quest and side quest. Even the side quest has a interesting story. Sucker Punch, Thank you soOOOOOOO much for this GAME!!!! :)
Взял в привычку думать что каждая новая игра будет полнейшим говном, получается избавится от тех ожиданий которые как правило не оправдываются. В случае с цусимой не ждал игру совсем, друг купил на свой аккаунт и расшарил мне. Сначала я офигел от графоуния который скорее напоминает корейские мморпг, некоторые анимации выглядят рофляно да и в целом у меня творилась какая-то упоротая дичь. Геймплейно и сюжетно игра впринципе неплохая, учитывая что я не фанат самураев да и японии в целом мне игра очень даже зашла. За фуллпрайс брать бы не советовал.
I been playing this game since release, taking my time playing lol, love the story, the scenery is amazing, overall one of the best games iv played for a long, i highly recommend it
Gráficos muito bonitos, boa jogabilidade, muita coisa para fazer, história bacana. Realmente tem alguns bugs, mas nada que irá atrapalhar a experiência.
This game is a masterpiece! While it definitely borrows gameplay mechanics from several different games (assassin’s creed, tomb raider, horizon zero dawn, dark souls) it manages to turn it into an homage instead of plagiarism - partly by losing the annoying parts and only keeping the good. While you play it everything feels solely its own and completely natural to the game. The two greatest accomplishments of the game are the combat and the variety. The combat is EXCELLENT, multiple ways to approach any situation, every technique and skill can be used in any number of ways/combinationsS and with the enemy variety it never gets old. Furthermore, on the normal setting the combat is challenging without pointless difficulty, resulting in the occasional death and “oh crap” moments; fans of the souls-borne game will love the hard difficulty setting (it’s HARD). The other big success of the game is the variety, and that’s really the variety of every aspect: locations, collectibles, quests, everything meshes together perfectly without getting old - I’m trying to 100% the game 1/3rd of the way finished, 20 hours in and not a moment of boredom yet. Highly recommended this game WELL worth $60.


Great game play an graphics. A couple of things that made me rate it a 9/10, there is no lock on, the camera goes through trees so sometimes when fighting walls, trees or houses would block the camera. Also there are only a couple of models for the NPCs probably 3 or 4.

Am absolutely loving this game! Best new release I've loved for a few years now! I love that this game don't push a political messages or a LGBTQ message like some **** recent games. For those reasons metacritic didn't give this a far better rating.
A asolute fantistic Open World Game with one of the best stories i´ve ever played. Must Have Title
What an amazing Experience from the very humble beginning to the epic Samurai conclusion. Amazing equally emotional story telling, game play mechanics, absolutely stunning graphics and amazingly satisfying combat with deep learning curve. This is the Samurai/ Feudal Japanese game we were waiting for all those years. Kudos to Sucker Punch for delivering such an amazing Game. p.s. This is an absolute Genius game and will be remembered as an amazing send of to this current generation of video games.

I would recommend this game for people who don’t mind open world, can appreciate the calm parts of a game and the intense counterparts, it’s very easy to get into no matter your skillset. I had seen nothing about this game before playing it, but I once it came out I said sure why not. There hasn’t been a game in a long time that has been this fun to play. The setting of the game is spectacular. They take full advantage of colors and their mechanics to make combat feel much like a dance. I would play all side quests before moving on to main story quests and I always felt like there was something new to do or look forward to. It’s so neat to be able to clear through enemies stealthily or head on. Kills are always satisfying and gameplay honestly always remained refreshing, much better change to what I usually play, first person shooters.

Even with some bugs I've encountered during my playthrough(a mythic tale restarted even after I've completed it), I can definitely say this is one of the best games I've ever played in my lifetime.
One of the most beautiful games I've ever played; surprised it's PS4 and not PS5! Breathtaking world, very enjoyable combat and stealth, and gripping story. It truly can't get better. A game by gamers for gamers, and the fact that the critics are not totally loving it is further proof that it's actually a good game. Amazing what a game company can achieve when it's not being ridden by woke fat feminists and snowflakes.
I will teach you the good points of this game in bad English. Easy-to-play operability, super beautiful graphics, tense fighting, strategy that you can choose, Japan respect, fast travel stress free, story that you can enter without history knowledge, attractive NPC, groundbreaking that does not destroy the world view Navigation, etc.

This game has a lot of positives but also has a lot of negatives. I was under the impression this game would handle the open world genre in a new and fresh way. It doesn’t. It’s still a case of clicking a point on a map and going to it. I thought it would be a lot more fluid. I found it very repetitive to be honest. Once you’ve played it for 5 hours or so you’ve seen everything. I played it for longer than this but have ended up selling it. The art direction is excellent. The swordplay is excellent also but also becomes repetitive. I feel it’s another new game that does not live up to expectations. Seems to be a lot of those at the moment. 10/10s are way too generous.
Jogo incrível jogabilidade incrível gráficos muito bons, Ghost of Tsushima se desenrola lentamente pela história, mas fica cada vez mais interessante.
I have invested probably more than 50 hours into this game the last few days, and I honestly cannot put this game down. I like the art, the story, the characters, the combat, and my precious armours that make me look like a bad ass charging heads on into the enemies, or sneaking behind them for assassination. It has been so long since there's a game that makes me this happy. Ok enough talk, now I'll have to go back to playing Ghost of Tsushima.
So beautiful game! I'm a big fan of open world fan, so I'm really happy to play this. Combat system is really well done, too, that reminds me Sekiro a bit, but his swordmanship is just beautiful. He doesn't swing sword like idiot. When they made this game, they clearly seeked advice from modern swordsman. Only one thing I have against is the lack of variety. All you do, pretty much, is find Mongolians and kill them.
畫面美感: 色調、自然環境、地形、UI及氣候讓人驚豔，普通建築偶有重複但瑕不掩瑜。 遊戲感受: 初始遊玩覺得過於簡單，卻意外地不會膩，可以按照自己意思去演繹印象中電影般的美。
Ghost of Tsushima is the perfect sendoff to the PS4 era. SuckerPunch created a game that truly does justice to the japanese setting the game takes place in, all while putting you in the shoes of a conflicted Samurai ready to do everything, including breaking his own code, to save the people and the island that he loves. Jin Sakai is yet again another amazing Playstation Icon to add to the roster of amazing exclusive titles that Playstation has to offer. His story while not the most original, is inspired by classic Samurai Tales of old, quite reminiscent of Seven Samurai or even Yojimbo, drawing a clear inspiration from the works of Akira Kurosawa and doing justice to his legacy in videogame form. It's a gorgeous game, with amazing combat, breathtaking visuals and a lot of sidequests and exploration to partake in. Side characters, especially those tied to the main story, are all interesting and fleshed out in sometimes in heart wrenching ways. These characters and their backstories are truly worth delving into. Meanwhile quests like Mythic Tales expand the lore in true SuckerPunch fashion, with truly beautiful artistic flare that invokes japanese ink paintings, Sumi-e. You will get lost in this world and the game rewards exploration. Finding new cosmetics, hidden secrets and places is well worth it and gives you a satisfying feeling that your wandering paid off. No microtransactions here, everything can be found in-game and it's truly a staple of Playstation games at this point to give everything away within gameplay and not as something you pay extra. i could go on and on about why this game is truly a masterpiece deserving of being called the Playstation 4 era's Swan Song, but play it for yourself, get lost in this world and you'll see what everyone is talking about.

Asides from a few minor issues with the camera and the lip synching for the Japanese dub, this is a near perfect game. The environment is gorgeous, the story is compelling and the characters are very interesting. If I were to nitpick one thing about the animation, it is that the characters don't move very much during cutscenses, but that is a very small complaint.
First of all, congrats to Sucker Punch! Outstanding job! I've been waiting patiently for this game since October 2017, for almost 3 years we've waited and it did not disappoint. It's not a perfect game, but it's surprising how they pulled it off. Everything looks gorgeous, the photo mode is a beast! and the game play gave me 6 days of sleep deprivation.

Amazing game, graphics and gameplay are unbelievable story is great so far. Only issue is the auto lock on isn't as accurate as a manual lock on feature




Очень красивая и хорошая игра для уходящего поколения ps4. Разработчики молодцы сделав такую игру. Огромное вам спасибо за такой эксклюзив.
Suffise to say it is not a game with high quality advanced top notch graphics, but its fidelity to The Samurai Theme and Japanese Culture is what makes it special above all. Nevertheless, the game creates an entire open world, dedicated to full gameplay immersion in its several elements, which amuse the player by taking Jin in profound and deep sentimental stories about lost, honor, vengeance and kindness. All of this, being told by either Jin's perspective or as his allies perspectives, or even enemies, which in the end sometimes make you understand and comprehend the caracthers and their actions. Needless to say, it is a game in which you discover a lot about a different culture and gets an insight over human beings and their feelings.

Undoubtedly the best game I’ve ever played! Graphics: 9/10, not the best detailed game; however, this game has best scenery, a perfect and inspiring live movie, whereas the others were just static photos. Gameplay: 10/10
Ghost of Tsushima era un juego que me llamaba la atención porque lo vi como el AssCreed Japan que Ubisoft nunca se atrevería a hacer. HOWEVER, Unas 50 horas into the game y esto es mejor que todas las épocas exploradas por AC (I ain't saying AC sucks, I'm saying this is better). Tienes dos opciones para aproximarte al combate. Balls to the wall melee combat que simula perfectamente un duelo de espadas (it's Samurai Shodown levels of Samurai gameplay) y Ghost Tactics (o sea sigilo, veneno y subterfugio). Sin embargo, you can use both. El combate es bastante sencillo, you got your light and heavy attack botons con evasión, evades, blocks, deflects y parries además de un par de armas secundarias para complementar (algo así bien Arkham-Asylum-ish). Es bastante realista, solo necesitas un para de sablazos bien dados para tener una muerte asegurada. It takes a lot of skill llevarse grupos de más de 5 enemigos si decides irte de frente y al choque. Por el otro lado, para los ghost tactics también tienes herramientas sencillas. Bombas de humo, ejecuciones a lo AC, Arco y flecha ara hacer silent takedowns a distancia, campanas y fuegos artificiales para desviar a la atención, un grappling hook for some second story work y escabullirte entre partes clave de las construcciones que encuentras en el juego. El approach en la historia varía dependiendo de quién acompañe a Jin. Si estas con Ishikawa-sensei o Shimura-sama usualmente vas de frente (I'll provide context for this later) y si estás con Yuna, Ryuzo o Kenji vas a usar ghost tactics más que otra cosa. Es en las secciones de mundo abierto del juego donde realmente tomas el approach que te parece mejor. And boy is there a lot to do en la isla Tsushima sin seguir la historia del juego. El balance entre el combate y stealth a lo largo de la historia es bueno. Hay una mecánica bastante prittona: los Stand Off, en los que retas a alguien a un duelo de un solo golpe. No puedo enfatizar lo suficiente la importancia de maxear esa sección del skill tree ASAP. Una vez dominas la mecánica del Stand Off y la maxeas puedes acabar con escuadrones enemigos completos simplemente batiéndote a duelo con ellos. Ahora vamos con la historia y los personajes. El juego toma lugar en la invasión de los Mongoles a Japón en 1247, Jin (nuestro protagonista) es un noble joven de la isla de Tsushima. Al ser huérfano de padre y madre Jin es quién representa a su clan la batalla de la bahía de Komoda, al lado de su tío Lord Shimura, el Jito (gobernador), de la isla de Tsushima. La batalla termina mal, todos los samurais de la isla de Tsushima son exterminados en la batalla de la Bahía de Komoda salvo Jin, que es rescatado por Yuna (una ladrona) y Lord Shimura que es capturado por Khotun Khan el primo de Kublai y neito de Genghis. Khotun aprendió japónes, estudio la política, tradiciones, costumbres y filosofía de los japoneses para entender su idiosincrasia. Dándole entendimiento de las políticas locales y el estado de la población. Toda la preparación de Khotun da como resultado una lucha desigual en la que los mongoles arrollan a los japoneses como una aplanadora. Jin luego de ser rescatado por Yuna empieza a aprender los beneficios de luchar desde las sombras (algo que va en dirección opuesta del Bushido). Sin embargo, ese apego al código de honor samurai es lo que los ha hecho predecibles a la hora de luchar con Khotun. A lo largo de la historia vemos el dilema de Jin en adoptar esta nueva forma de ver la guerra que es considerada deshonrosa por mentes más tradicionalistas. Pero también está la parte de como los mongoles usan rehenes y esclavos para hacer que las tácticas frontales pierdan su efectividad. Y hay varios flashbacks de Jin aprendiendo kenjutsu y bushido en el que se aprecia esa yuxtaposición entre el código de honor y hacer lo necesario. En el apartado visual, puedo decir con toda certeza que este juego es lo más hermoso que he visto en un PS4. Desde la arquitectura de los templos, la configuración de las aldeas, los paisajes naturales, altares y acantilados a lo largo de la isla. Este es un juego que apesar de haber sido inspirado por películas no vende su identidad tratando de ser una película interactiva. La música es buenísima y los efectos de sonido del viento, lluvia, relámpagos, el galope de los caballos y los cortes de la espada son envolventes. Hay un buen par de bugs y glitches en el juego, pero no restan en nada a la experiencia. Mi score personal para Ghost of Tsushima es un 9/10. Y está en el Valhalla de Obras Maestras de esta generación junto a Witcher 3, Red Redemption 2 y Breath of The Wild.
It’s a single player open world game....we’ve seen it all before... But it’s so polished and well done, and the visuals are stunning (without also trying to be brave)! It’s a joy to play
This is one of the most fun and beautiful games I have played in years. Super creative and a joy to play. As soon as you think you are done. You want to pick it up again. Amazing game and the best I've played on a very very long time
De los mejores juegos mundo abierto que he jugado. Paisaje maravilloso y en apartado técnico el mejor hasta la fecha sin ninguna duda. Representa perfectamente las invasiones mongolas a las islas de tsushima y el como eran los samurais. Gráficamente lo mejor que hay sin ninguna duda. Historia maravillosa, emotiva, triste y empática. Me paro y aplaudo a sucker punch, este juego es una obra maestra y de los mejores de la generación junto a The Witcher 3 sin ninguna duda.


I went into this game not know much about it and may i say it was a pleasant surprise. The cinematic work is masterful showing of the japanese cinematography and culture. This game plays like a dream. Any mistakes i made during gameplay were my own and i felt completely in control. The leveling up mechanic in this game is fantastic and makes you feel like you grown from a weakling samurai to a force to be reckoned with. The flexibility in choice of abilities allows for endless opportunities to grow and best of all defeating and observing your enemies helps you counter other enemies you are likely to face. The game is beautiful and made me feel like i was in japan in at 1274 during the mongol invasion. The collectibles also are very useful from new hats to new masks and other items to have fun with on your journey. The story for a simple as it seems is amazing combined with the side quests makes the story a who lot more enriched and somber. The story was told beautifully. There were some glitches i ran into on my playthrough like when i air assassinated someone through an object it caused my assassinations to be glitched and would cause detection issue or how the final tale of norio quest causes the fox dens to glitch and foxes would not show up. beating the quest and resetting the game fixed the issues and definitely did not take away from my enjoyment especially since they did not happen frequently or were very minor with easy fixes. I liked the wind system but i wish they showed you the exact location instead of approximate because when hunting for collectables it became a big pain because the wind was not always very fun to follow or would not show up at all on my map until i moved a while. I think the wind works for things with a little less amounts to them the banners and other large quantity items were very annoying. I think an exact location would have worked way better on things like the banners or scrolls and artifacts. overall i think this game is amazing and definitely is a 9 out of ten. from how cinematic it is to its fluid clean gameplay its easily my favorite game so far this year
Amazing to see what Sucker Punch has achieved going from Infamous Series to Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks gorgeous. My biggest take is the absence of HUD, so you get to immerse yourself in the environment as the wind is used to guide you to your next location. My biggest gripe with most open-world games is having to spend half the time looking at the mini-map and this game solves it beautifully. Also, there is no level gating, where you can't fight an enemy because they are 30 levels above you. The combat is fluid and really satisfying (playing on hard). The loading times in the game are only a few seconds, which is surprising given it is running on HDD and such old hardware. The photo mode is rich with features. The customization and charms are fun. I feel this is the game that everyone wanted an Assassin's Creed in Japan to be. Overall, I have really enjoyed the hours I have put into this game. Congrats to Sucker Punch on this great game.
This is the best samurai game ever made. It's gorgeous, it's stylish, it's fun open world. It's got a dedicated photo button and it deserves one. You're playing a Kurosawa film. What you need to know: - This is a Sucker Punch game, combat WILL test you. When you don't get it, it's very frustrating as a dozen enemies pound you from all sides. When you get it, you will be a God of Death, carving a swath through your enemies as they void their bladders in fear. I can clear out an entire camp of 50 mobs and feel just on the edge of dying all the time, but I don't, by the skin of my teeth. The balancing is perfect. - I've seen some people complain about the lack of humor. Well, this is a Kurosawa film. It's very grim and serious and there is humor but it's very dry. You're not going to laugh out loud, but there's lots of opportunities for a grin. - The very worst thing about the game is how the camera loves to obstruct your view and they weren't polite enough to make anything blocking your view transparent. That's not hard, so that's a full point off there. All I can say is use the roll button (circle) till you have enough breathing room to move the camera. - This game is f@#$ing huge - 5 years worth of development. You'll get your money's worth.
Amazing game, beautiful world in which you will get lost for hours and hours. I feel like a kid again watching my favorite samurai movies with my grandfather, the game just leave such a good feeling in you. A must play for everyone!!!
I just finished Ghost of Tsushima and thought it was a solid game. However I cannot conceive why there is so much hype about it. The design is gorgeous, but that’s the only standout element for me. I played on hard and beat almost every boss on my first try, including the two final ones without even coming close to dying, which cheapened the experience for me. I thought the combat was mostly good, but the camera wasn’t great. For me the most disappointing part was the main story. It had so much potential but never got past being just okay. I was let down by how basic it ended up being.
The game is gonna be one of my favorite game of all time. the game is engaging, immersive and fun. The story really gives weight what it means to be a samurai and what it means to give up everything for the greater good even it means giving up everything you believe in. side quests does not feel repetitive at all. each tale, each side quest feels like a mini story of its own. its fun and engaging. It feels like you really are making the island of tsushima liberated with each missions you finished. that is just the side missions. The main missions are epic and truly captivating. Gameplay wise, its god sent. The controls are responsive, and being the "Ghost", it really makes you feel like a really bad ass. the massive creativity, the combinations, the animations, everything feels so immersive that you feel like you really are Jin Sakai and you are a real badass. the world building, the gameplay, the story, the immersiveness of the game blends perfectly in this one game that really leaves an empty space in your soul once you platinum finished the game. Overall, this is the best game that can send the ps4-era a big send off for its era of games.

Мое уважение к разработчикам !!! Отличный проект . Яркий пример когда игру делали люди для людей .

Probably the most visually beautiful game I have ever seen. The story was surprisingly amazing, I went in expecting an average story like a lot of these open world games. But this story was very intriguing and moving. The combat started out a bit clunky but I quickly got used to it and it ends up being extremely smooth. The side characters were pretty interesting, the mythic tales were really intriguing. The typical side quests could have been better. I also wish the lip sync for the japanese audio was better.

Game of the generation for sure. Beautiful scenery, good combat with some depth, touching tale with a convincing protagonist and friends. Only shame is that there is no post-game contents which SP would be wise to capitalize on.
This game is a piece of art. Give you what next-gen on ps5 can do. Sucker Punch, you didn't do a good job. You did an AMAZING job!! My big Thanks to There team❤ Visual is stunning 10/10 Story 10/10 Action 10/10 Soundtrack 10/10 ありがとう
One of the best games in the open world. +сombat system +Interesting side quest +atmosphere +storyline - Historical fakes. It could have been done with such success fantasy - No quick switching of armor
9 point for the great experience. It same other open world game but creater can make me very enjoy in story ,side quest ,art design ,sound design. Of course PHOTO MODE is perfect!! 1 point for some bug and some problem for some smooth action of claiming
Ghost of Tsushima is by far the best game I have played this year. Sure it borrows familiar game play from the likes of the Assassin's Creed series, but still puts its own twist on it in an intuitive and in very fun way. What really stands out for me, is the amazing attention to detail that Sucker Punch created in terms of the graphics and the storyline. I can't really think of a game better than this in 2020 other than Cyberpunk 2077, if it's released on time.
The graphics is amazing the foilage OMG it's jaw dropping. The combat is so much fun and it's a freaking legit samurai game. 10 out of 10 my GOTY as of now but we have cyberpunk so this might change.

This game fulfilled the promise of decent revenge story telling that TLOU2 failed so spectacularly with. The combat and exploration elements are executed in a completely unique and amazing way. Immersion and storytelling perfectly executed. I actually returned TLOU2 for this and have 0 regrets. Best decision I ever made. If you’re looking for a AAA game and are torn between the two, get Ghost Of Tsushima, trust me.



This is a masterpiece, the storyline and world building is much more fantastic and enjoyable than some game with a butt ton of politic. The Female character of this game like Lady Masako and Yuna make a better strong female than some character from a game that force me to sympathy with.



This game in my opinion is the best exclusive ps4 has right now, so well done that i dont know how this is not the best reviewed one. The best open world and the most beautiful since Breath of the Wild, the combat system is really fun, you have a lot of side quest to do and a lot of them are very enjoyable. The music is so beautiful it remains me of those old samurai movies and how cool they were, and the best part is that this game makes you fell like a total badass,never a game have made me fell that way before and that's so cool for me. The weak point for me is the story, it's not that original compare to other stories from PS and from other Japanese movies. But it doesn't matter cause everything else is really great, for me is actually a 9.8 but you can put decimals in here but well. Very recommended game

Tooperson gráficos bons, história boa e jogabilidade melhor ainda, está no meu top 3 jogos dessa geração
Hands down one of the best games of this generation! The world design is topnotch, the gameplay and exploration is crisp and smooth though there are some minor camera issues but still that doesn't affect the smoothness of this game. The main story and it's characters are also great and memorable. Most of it's sidequests have a lot of depth in its story and their own twists and turns. Definitely a GOTY contender this year.
The story is not that all but it's still great. The characters are strong developed and I feel empathy for them Taking the facial expressions aside, the graphics are one of the best of the generation, the scenarios are just amazing and the combat is fluid and energetic The open world and parkour mechanics are fun and opens lots of possibilities to explore
Man was this a great game. a definite GOTY contender. The graphics just made me keep playing even after completing everything and made me roleplay as a wandering samurai in feudal japan. The combat was one the best sword fighting combat system ive seen since witcher 3, combined with the matching soundtrack made this a perfect samurai simulator. The story was good nothing groundbreaking but enjoyable none the less but it would have been better if the story had been impacted if you chose to play as a samurai instead of the ghost but it wasnt that big of a deal breaker also wish there was some replay ability but that can be added later. Overall i just love this game and we needed something like this after the disastrous last of us 2

Ghost Of Tsushima - A beautiful open world game which could have been presented better. This game is an amazing feat for Sucker Punch who did something they had never done before. A really good way to close this generation but it has some cons which make it a good but not a perfect game. Pros and Amazing Features :- 1. A phenomenal and easy to use photo mode. 2. Really Fun Gameplay 3. Amazing Soundtrack 4. Beautifully crafted open world Cons and Disappointments :- 1. Boring Story with Little Plot 2. Unskippable CutScenes (Really Bad on Sucker Punch's Part) 3. Bad Narrative 4. Clunky Button Arrangement Overall, it is a really good game with beautiful graphics and intricate and fun gameplay. Huge Congrats to Sucker Punch for this.
Love the combat and the overall open world gameplay. Almost no bugs, can be set to high difficulty, very small game size (in GB) yet hours of fun. Super fast loading screens. I have nothing bad to say about the game.
The game is beautiful, both visually and narratively. The combat system is simple but very fun, I have lost countless hours playing this game, every new encounter feels different than the last. This is one of the few games where I actively sought out sidequests, the world feels so unique and developed, you can tell suckerpunch put a lot of care into this game. Coming off of the disappointment that was TLoU2, this game was a MUCH needed palate cleanser. The characters all feel like actual people, each with their own distinctive personalities. I will say the main bad is a little disappointing BUT, his boss fight is extremely fun despite his (spoiler kinda) lack of on screen presence. The skill tree is extremely fun to progress down, I never felt like I NEEDED a certain skill to help me progress, I just chose the ones that looked the coolest and went from there. If you are on the fence about this game I highly recommend just buying it. I hardly ever rate games higher than a 7.5 but this game genuinely deserves the 9 point rating.
Love everything about this game, got the platinum and doing a second play through with lethal difficulty. Really recommend the game for anyone who is looking for a best story setting open world game.
The best open world game release this generation. The aesthetics are really amazing, you will literally be taking photos during all the game. That’s how amazing everything looks. The gameplay is truly amazing as well This game is a masterpiece
Es un buen juego, valió cada maldito segundo y centavo pagado. Quizá falla solo un poco en las físicas en batalla, pero lo arregla la historia, la calidad gráfica y los demás apartados que hacen de este un excelente juego, probablemente (en mi opinión) el mejor exclusivo de playstation de este año, no como TLOU2
Игра отличная, но в ней есть и свои баги и проблемы (особенно камера) сюжет не плохой, графон хороший но ветер через горы это невообразимо, игра заслуживает 9 из 10
A must play game! Beautiful scenery, a great story, and side stories that are just as captivating as the main quest if not better. Combat is just so great and i plat trophied the game and i just want more
Ghost of Tsushima is by far the greatest game that I have played that is open world. Many compare it with The Witcher (which I haven’t played yet so I don’t know how valid it is my opinion of the game) but still it is a great game with opportunities of developing care for the characters and personalize the main character to our desire, from sword, headwear, and clothing. I loved the story although I haven’t completed 100%(what I will do). What I have to say is that I haven’t had the desire to get platinum on any game that I have played, but this one for sure I will I don’t care how much it will take me but I will.
This game has a lot of atmosphere. It looks beautiful and sometimes looks like a living painting. This is combined with good sound and atmospheric Japanese music. The gameplay is fun, but not Dark Souls difficult. It gets easier when you upgrade skills and equipment, but it stays satisfying. The world is nice and big. Filled enough with things to explore, but not so overstuffed you get lost. The story is chopped into playable chapters and divided between the main story and sub story. But al stories are interesting enough you will want to explore them all. Best game this year thus far!
Just finished this game in normal and I'm about to replay in lethal... I sucked at Sekiro but we'll see how we go lol... Love love loved this game... instant classic on my shelf!! The dishonourable ghost with the most honourable story!! 10/10
This game is a piece of art. Without spoiling any main plot points or in game mechanics (one of the coolest things to discover on your own), Ghost takes the cake for me. I cannot remember the last time I got SO MUCH enjoyment from just $60. Whether I’m following adorable foxes to Inari shrines to upgrade my Charm slots, or slaying mongols with my trusty Sakai katana, there is not a dull moment in this masterpiece. There is nothing better than waking up in the morning to a cup of hot green tea, and sitting down for a session of Ghost. Do yourself a favor, buy this game.
Hands down one of the best games of the last couple of years. A perfect 10, with an engaging and well written story, awesome gameplay, and well developed growth system. There are at least 3 times in the game where you say to yourself: daaamn, this game just started. It's breathtakingly beautiful and I can say with confidence that I feel more attached to the horse in this game than I did about the main char in last of us 2. You want to do it all, you feel the need to explore it all, all charms and perks matter and amount to many AWESOME builds. First game in my life that at the end I felt the need to applaud, when reaching the credits. No kidding. I applauded alone in my apartment.
Love the game graphics are amazing love the open world accessibility of the open world really an immersive game play the photo mode is amazing. I love all the side quests that you can do to help power up your move set
What a piece of ART. Ghost of Tsushima truly feels like a Next Gen game. The world is absolutely stunning and you can easily get lost in it. Best exploration and open world game since RDR2. The Wind tracking mechanism is a great idea. Lovely soundtrack. Wonderful japanese voice acting. Combat system is so much fun. Also the attention to detail: the sound of rain inside a Mongolian tent, the realistic drag marks of corpses in the sand or Jin's hand touching the flowers when walking through a meadow. Also the ability to "write" Haiku adds a nice touch. The "Kurosawa mode", or Samurai Cinema will effectively turn your game into a 50s samurai movie. This is perfect for fans of the classic samurai films. The story is really good, it starts slow but will get better later on. Can't remember the last time I cried during a videogame. A worthy end to the PS4 era.
Игра запоминается неплохой боевой системой; стелсом; музыкой; кастомизацией. На этом всё. Всё пропитано тупой американщиной и безвкусицей; среди кучи скучных сайдквестов есть парочка неплохих, но их было слишком мало; все активности на карте это усиления и блокпосты; битвы с врагами однообразны и начинают быстро надоедать даже на высокой сложности; графика хоть иногда и великолепна, но иногда выглядит как игра с PS3; сюжет скучен и максимально глуп, лишь во 2 половине игра немного набирает обороты. Если бы игру дали на небольшую переделку шарящим людям, то её можно было бы превратить как минимум в очень хорошую, но увы, этого не случилось.

Finished the game, the combats and graphic were amazing, story is great. Also love the photo mode. There were some bugs but it won't affect the gameplay experience, overall a 10/10 game for me. This game is the perfect ending as the last ps4 exclusives game. Recommend everyone to buy it!!
To be rather this game is a pure and utter work of art. This comment essentially works im accordance to the vibrant colours, lush environments and the immersive nature of it all. The story is strong and enjoyable unlike another game i shan't mention. Although my gripe would be of certain tiresome gameplay aspects within side quests although that's bot enough to hurt my experience. This is per one of the very few games i have ever platinumed as to which it is an overall ten for me.

Great Game. Got the platinum. Story, music, environment are all amazing. All the characters story wise are well made and feel like real people with their own issues and beliefs. Probably the only down sides in this is act ll feels empty and some glitches and bugs like models rag dolling, enemy models change in my case was a mongol but the character model was that of one of their dogs, and some lighting issues like shadows not working and daytime or nighttime depending on what direction you're facing. Over all, game of the year, Thank You Sucker Punch
The ps4 ends on a high note as Ghost of Tsushima is the last ps4 exclusive. First thing is first, the game is absolutely gorgeous. Although one thing i will say is that the facial animations seem off to me and the lip syncing if off. But other than that the game is gorgeous. The story is engaging and the side missions are fun, but nothing ground breaking here. The game play is where this game shines. I am playing on the highest difficulty where every sword strike is lethal. This makes combat tense and forces you too approach combat methodically. Stealth is also fun and tense. But i do prefer direct confrontation over stealth. The rpg elements are very fun. I love finding new fox den's, haiku areas, bamboo strike areas, etc. There are also tons of collectables in this game. All in all this is so far the best game of 2020 and one of the best games i have played in the past few years. It is a must play for the ps4. 10/10 from me.
By far the most fun I've had with an open world game in a long time! Side missions that don't feel forced, beautiful scenery, and just enough exploring to keep things fresh!

This game is one of the best looking games I've ever played not just the graphics but the overall art style, really pretty. It makes you want to explore more and so the open-world aspect of this game is not tiring or boring like other open-world games. Combat is excellent. Menus are easy to navigate and very snappy. Loading times are really fast.
اققزلقلززدذيثغازذطي٢٤٤٥ا قفغاززذب٥غازدد غغتررزدذلفعتزدفهترززدذبفغتزدب ففااررر

If you, like me, desperately seek a game that could stand beside Witcher 3, seek no more, it's here. Ghost of Tsushima is a lesson learned from W3, with slightly worse presentation (subjective!) and much better combat mechanics. Quests are diverse and engaging and the open world just waits for you to explore. Great game!

Ghost of Tsushima is one of the better games I’ve played this year interesting open world some of the missions are copied and pasted but if you want a fun interesting open world then Ghost of Tsushima is for u.

This was the thing that we waited for so long Great soundtrack Great story Great graphics Voice acting and mocap of the game was phenomenal The combat system is not a thing to see in other games
A beautiful open world that is fun to explore, there aren't many games were I stopped and stared to just enjoy the scenery for a while but Ghost of Tsushima is one of them. That being said, it is much like other open world where you clear enemy camps, gather crafting components and clear challenges to upgrade your abilities. Nor is the story anything unique. But here's the thing, neither of those things are particularly "bad". A game doesn't have to subvert expectations to be good. Ghost of Tsushima made me feel like a samurai and a ninja, which is EXACTLY what I wanted from the game. I liked the way all the characters were portrayed, even the bad ones, and to me the story had a satisfying, if bittersweet, conclusion. So yes, if you're looking for a fun open world game with good and rewarding, but simple, combat and stealth mechanics. I would definitely recommend Ghost of Tsushima. It is in no way a perfect game, but I'd still give it a solid 9 out of 10
Bom acabei de finalizar o jogo e realmente o jogo e maravilhoso e bonito,só não dou 10 por que teve umas 2 coisas meio chatas que foi a inteligência artificial dos inimigos e aliados,e a câmera nas batalhas, espero que no próximo jogo isso melhore,super recomendo esse jogo pra quem e fã desse estilo de jogo.




It's not a perfect game but that's not what Ghost Of Tsushima set out to be. This game doesn't try to be the most graphically intense, it's characters are not the most pretty, the story isn't full of twist and turns, and the historical reference isn't most accurate. But that's okay. Ghost Of Tsushima set out to be a fun game, with solid story and characters that resemble an old Kurosawa classic, packing the world with intriguing folk lores, and interesting terrain that's not only fun to traverse, but are often breathtakingly beautiful. The art director for the environments deserves an award. On all the important areas, the game excels in overdelivering an experience that will leave you wanting to live through this samurai legend from start to finish.

Ghost of Tsushima is an absolutely amazing game. My favorite game in years. Granted I have become a much more casual gamer as I get older & don't play as many games as I once did, but that being said I don't think I've ever enjoyed a game more. Any reviewer that rated this game lower than 80/90 must not be a fan of the genre. At least that is my guess? Besides a few very small technical glitches I don't see how one could not not rate this an 80 at the very lowest. The only small negative issue that I have found after playing for about 25hrs is that sometimes in battle the camera ends up behind something that dosent turn invisible like in some other games so you can't see what you're doing, but one quick evasion move solves that & the designers may have chose to make it that way for whatever reason...so I'm not sure that wasn't intended? I can't recommend this game enough. If you're a fan of the genre & like samurai/Japanese culture, this game is about as perfect as I could imagine a game being 10/10
This game from start to finish is amazing, from the beautifully crafted world, mechanics, core gameplay, missions, and side quests, this game begs the player to explore this meticulously and beautifully crafted world. This game lived up to expectations, and continued to deliver an amazing experience that keeps pulling you in to keep going, this for me is the platinum standard of games on the playstation 4, and I would recommend to everyone that loves open world games to play ghosts of tsushima

Ghost of tsushima is one the best games i have played since horizon zero dawn. For me it took down my number 2 spot in all time favorite. Witchef 3 being first and horizon zero dawn being number 3.
This game was a pleasant surprise. In terms of gameplay, it is essentially a modern Assassin's Creed set in fuedal Japan without the assassin lore or the franchise killing microtransactions and nerfed experience gain to incentivize exp boosters. The game's art is gorgeous with the use of colorful particle physics and incorporated into path finding with wind. The game's length is perfect, it doesn't overstay it's welcome but there are plenty of side quests for those that want them. It tells a story to completion and in the end wraps it up pleasantly. I have a PS4 Pro with an SSD, load times are fairly short and only happen with fast travel or ending a mission, and that's c coming from a PC primary gamer with an NVMe SSD. The only game's fault is a tad sloppy execution on stealth. I hate stealth, but with a bit of patience and usage of equipment to boost stealth it is tolerable.
Um jogo incrivelmente lindo com uma jogabilidade muito viciante que o leva por uma das paisagens de mundo aberto mais bonito nos últimos anos. Excelente forma de encerrar a linhagem de exclusivos do PS4.
Loved the game! It wasn't super inventive, but games don't always need to be. It did what it needed to tell a story with characters that you could get invested in. Loved the open world and following the wind to get around. I especially liked writing Haikus and the short meditations in the hot springs. Those small moments reminded me that its okay to mentally relax every once in a while and that was very nice and peaceful. It was also really pretty. I never use photo mode, but I kept using it in this game. I'd spend maybe around 30-45 minutes at a time playing around with the settings and getting a shot and it's coloring just right. And sometimes I'd just jump in to capture a fun cool moment. I don't regret a second using that photo mode. The story was an okay revenge plot, but with interesting characters and spectacular moments that really made me feel like a badass Samurai. The way the story is structured, the small dialogue choices and how reflective cut scenes would trigger when I did something against the Samurai code made me feel like I had decided Jin's story arc instead of it being a scripted arc. Even though it was scripted. I liked a lot of the side quests. However, some of them felt a little wooden and repetitive. With some better actors and writing in those side quests I would have enjoyed seeking them out instead of using them as a way to grind to make my character better. The main side stories were great, but it was the nameless people that you would help that I had trouble with. There were some glitches in the game. I would get stuck if I jumped into the wrong object and I couldn't climb up or land on objects like certain rocks, wagons, and animals that I should have been able to stand on. Those were minor issues though. I liked the use of music in the game and how Jin can play some.
Muchas sombras para ser un fantasma Recién terminado el juego, aquí dejo mis conclusiones: Puntos positivos: -Ambientación -Como evoluciona la historia -El diseño artístico de armas y armaduras -Los combates Vs Bosses, son muy buenos y te reconcilian con el juego -El minijego del bambú para conseguir concentración Puntos negativos: -El combate, en el 95% de los combates vas a pelear contra 6,7 o 10 enemios simultaneamente y no poder marcas enemigos en un combate donde el parry es tan importante, me parece un punto negativo grave -La cámara, teniendo que ir constantemente moviendola con el analog, si no pierdes de la visual al enemigo -El doblaje, lo he jugado en Japones con subtitulos y es terrible, en español, es peor. -Misiones repetidas hasta la saciedad -La manera de navegas entre las diferentes habilidades e items no es nada intuitivo ni rápido. Juego divertido en muchos aspectos, pero donde se le ve las aristas en casi todos los campos.
This might be the best open-world game I have ever played (and I played many...). Even though it is a well known formula, everything somehow feels fresh. The combat is excellent and the main and side missions are interesting. Even the 'busy work' keeps you entertained. For sure sucker punch'sbest work to date.
A truly beautiful game that had me engaged since the beginning. Probably the best looking game I have ever played, riding around was such a joy. I would rarely use fast travel because all I wanted to do was explore. The gameplay is extremely satisfying, whether you're being go honerable as a samurai or being stealthy and dishonerable as the ghost the gameplay is just so slick a fun. It's not a perfect game but it's probably the closest thing this year has offered

La perfezione non esiste ma il coinvolgimento che offre é totale oltre che ad essere una gioia per gli occhi. É stato capace di emozionarmi come pochi altri giochi hanno saputo fare. Pieno punteggio meritato e se poi volessero aggiungere anche la nuova partita + sarebbe il massimo.
This game does a lot of things well. The graphics are simply amazing. I'm not just talking about the character models and the animations of them moving but even the dynamic weather and the grass fluttering in the wind is amazing. The main missions are very emotional at times, but can get repetitive, but they definitely change the tone of the story as you go along. The side missions can get repetitive and boring at times but they have a variety of different types of side missions. My favorite is when you get to do side missions focused on supporting characters that help you in your journey. It adds a lot of depth and character development to the side characters. My second favorite type of side missions are mythic quests. There multi part quests there give you special abilities are special armor. It really helps round out the world and give it a cool mythical spin.The combat is challenging but as you unlock skills and get better fighting gets easier. Another great feature is how little non mission side stuff in the world gives you real life bonuses like increases in health and other perks, as well as cosmetic extras that you can use. These perks are significant enough to make you want to explore the whole world and find all these different cool items and perks. They are not just mindless gathering locations where you get a little bit of gold and some items. The progression system of obtaining perk points and the different abilities and you receive are well done and they don't make you grind incessantly to get these perk points. They present you with more than enough side quests and random occurrences to get all the perks mid way through the game.The crafting system is very simplistic so if you want a game with a great, in depth crafting system with dozens of different ingredients you should go elsewhere. To be completely honest I could only find a few things that I did not like about this game. In the first act the main character is very boring and stiff but as his character develops in Acts 2 & 3 with the main story quests he starts to develop into a more complex and compelling character. The stealth is definitely a little off. The AI isn't that smart and you can easily run circles around them with the right armor and perks. Also the controls can be a little unintuitive especially when you have to switch between different weapons and abilities in the heat of battle. After a while you do get used to it. Thirdly, I notice small glitches especially in the open world with random. Sometimes there are spawning issues and odd occurrences but nothing game breaking. For example I notice sometimes they were spawning issues when i tried to take over a location. I would come in and there would be no enemies and they would mysteriously pop up out of nowhere. But do note this has only happens a few times. Finally, the camera angles aren't the best. Especially during combat you have to fight the camera to center it, but you get used to it and it becomes a non issue. All in all this game is very good with some minor issues. Definitely get it.
Japan Witcher!! 100/10 Best game 2020 Бля игра топ вообще Жаль коня... плакал как девка
I will admit I had gotten more into Indie games as most big titles kept disappointing me, with the only interesting ones being sequels of already established franchise, such as Doom Eternal or Borderlands 3. Good, but stale after a while. This game though, this is a MUCH needed breath of fresh air. Sure it isn't "innovative" but at this point it's almost impossible to do such, so I feel that is not a true ding against it. Amazing graphics, combat system is solid and feels very rewarding (especially the 1v1 scenario's), and though the story is standard, there is ZERO issue with that if handled well, and I'd say it is more then handled well here with good examination of story themes. Soundtrack is rather epic as well. The main antagonist is also pretty damn cool despite my initial expectations for him, having a more realistic feel while being a total badass. All in all this game has brought me great joy and filled a hole that no indie game could quite fill.
Great story, great side missions, great gameplay, great visuals (like jaw dropping at times). Sucker Punch outdid themselves with this one, go out and buy this piece of digital art, it deserves all the praise!
Overall I'd give a 9.5. A 9.3 score is justified, while I think the media's 83 is laughable - especially in comparison with other AAA titles. I just finished the game a couple of days ago (all of main quest including side quests and liberating all parts of Tsushima) and can honestly say it was an almost flawless, very emotional and enjoyable experience. Well done, Sucker Punch, especially for your first open world RPG. The story was dark & compelling and the ending perfect no matter which choice you made; the world simply stunning with new environments in every zone, and I loved the combat. In every act, the difficulty and type of enemies changed, and I do recommend playing on hard mode - for the most part I played on normal, however if you do all side quests and get more armor types and upgrades early on like I did, you quickly feel overpowered. On a sidenote, in the newest update they added a very punishing difficulty. They were incredibly quick with this addition - kudos to them! The guiding wind was a nice new touch and made navigation so much easier. If I had to nitpick some aspects, and this should mostly be seen as what I wish for in the next game, then it would be this: . A cutscene after liberating all of the map would've felt rewarding, I really missed "something" after clearing it all out of Mongols . More quests with Kenji! . More Yuna and Jin! . Overall more interaction and quests with your allies, since all of them have great stories attached to them. Norio, Masuko, Ishikawa. . A few more quirky and unique quests a la Witcher 3; liberating and freeing individuals was a little repetitive at times but ultimately I still enjoyed it. . Unique weapon customization rather than just collecting skins and upgrading as a whole.
اللعبة جدا اسطورية الاجابيات القصة القيم بلاي العالم المفتوح الجميل والسلبيات الرسوم الأوجه لو معدل الاطارات قيلل
One of the best looking games I ever Played The RPG progression system is well balanced The story is amazing Even the side content is rewording Well done sucker punch Masterpiece
Se potevo mettevo più di 10. Gioco fantastico, ambientazione che secondo me molti aspettavamo da tempo. Il Giappone è il Giappone. Sucker Punch con questo capolavoro si può sedere al trono con i vari Santa Monica e Naughty Dog ( anche se quest'ultimo a mio parere a toppato con tlou2). Mi fermo spesso ad ammirare il panorama, quasi quasi mi rilassa. Mi dispiace per il voto della critica internazionale. Se il gioco usciva qualche mese dopo tlou2 avrebbe preso voti più alti, invece vengono fatti paragoni con quest'ultimo gioco citato a mio parere inutili essendo giochi totalmente diversi. Infatti più veritiera e onesta è la recensione data dai giocatori tant'è vero che ha una media di 9.3. A differenza di tlou2 con una media data dai giocatori di 5.3. Per me Ghost of Tsushima merita al 100% il GOTY. Complimenti! PS Ringrazio Sucker Punch del bellissimo regalo, cioè dare al personaggio principale la voce di Kazuya Nakai! (Per chi non lo conoscesse è la voce originale di RORONOA ZORO di one piece). Grazie!
This is easily the most beautiful and immersive experience i've had in my 20 years of gaming. I found myself taking screenshot after screenshot of the most captivating sceneries from glorious sunsets to ferocious storms to calming waterfalls and swaying flowers in the wind. There are several different biomes throughout the game which allows for everything to remain fresh and frankly breathtaking wherever you are. The gameplay is fresh, responsive, rewarding, and makes you feel like a total badass. The stance mechanic really opens things up and creates a new level of depth that always keeps you focused and never stops being a blast to play. The plot is a strong and emotional story that allows for the player to easily step inside the shoes of jin sakai; a protagonist that blossoms and grows immensely throughout the story. His cast of supporting characters are, at times, arguably just as strong, believable and well rounded as he is. This is especially fleshed out with alot of the side content. The character tales are all worth playing through. They all build into an unexpectedly satisfying conclusion. The mythic tales however, are some of my favourite moments in this game. They provide for new moves and different sets of armour etc. This alone is a wonderful reward for these beautifully crafted tales although, some of the most magnificent setpieces as well as some of the most epic duels you'll find all game reside in these quests. Altogether, ghost of tsushima is packed to the brim with epic, fun, exciting, magnificent and beautiful moments that go toe to toe with some of the all-time greats in gaming history. The lows can be counted on one hand while the highs surpass the hairs on my head (no, i'm not bald). A wonderful platinum experience. Thanks for making 2020 better suckerpunch.

What a game this is. Sucker punch really pulled it off with this one. The story is engaging enough for me to move forward. The gameplay is top notch, the swordplay is so challenging even at Normal mode. But it is not like Soul games where it is extremely hard, it is doable, if not there’s always Easy mode. The stealth I would say not bad, it’s fun with the gadgets given. The graphics are awesome and breath taking. I’d say they did the right thing by taking out mini map and replacing it with the wind. 10/10 game. Must Buy. A last treat from Sony to the PS4 unlike TLOU2.

Very good game. Nice graphics and gameplay. Predictive plot, but it’s fine anyway. May be it’s gonna be my first platinum. Enjoy every single minute of it. Btw death stranding is ****
This game is an inch perfect beauty. We all knew that already so yeah i'm just gonna praise one of the best character in this game. Sensei Ishikawa, he's a damn annoying old hag, yet he's a typical elder who can keep you down to earth & never stop learning to get his recognition.




This game is one of the bests if not the best playstation exclusive ever made! It's like a painting come to life! This game is not only good because of its unique gameplay style and amazing graphics but it's phenomenal storytelling and much more! This is game of the year! This game makes you feel like youre a badass samurai and ninja in a world thats looks amazing enough to be a box office movie! What more can you want?!
Amazing game. Great combat, music and scenery. The addition of Japanese voicing with english dubs was genius. It doesn't try to shove political agendas down our throats. 10/10


Easily my GOTY contender. Was a lot of fun and even after completing the story, there's still a lot to do in the game. The story was great and so were the characters and besides the game has an insane amount of content. You can easily play this game for weeks. My only complaints with the game are two things. One is that it can get a bit repetitive at times. Some of the side missions can get very repetitive if you do just them instead of focusing on the story. Also the climbing mechanic is very odd in the game as most times my character would just not hold to what I wanted and Fall to his death. I would recommend this game to pretty much every PS4 owner.
Negatives first: -When they're not in combat..the AI is awful. I've probably stabbed a 1,000 guys in the back and you can easily lose all 15 guys chasing you by simply running into a tent roughly 30 feet from them. -No matter how beautiful the world is..it really lacks substance/variety. All the side stuff is either filler/gets old in 5-6 tries (like the fox, for example). Every assassin you're tracking seems to like walking in a straight line down/up a dirt path, btw. -The story can be pretty slow in some points. It has highlights...but in the end..I don't think it was worth it..until the end..which i did like. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Positives: -It obviously looks amazing..the photo mode is right up there with Red Dead 2/HZD. -Great feel/atmosphere -As long as you're not fighting in a confined space..the combat is excellent..especially the duels! -Ishikawa I felt should have had more screen time..easily the best side character. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- This game just needs more to do. More meaningful stories..let people create their own duel...not (as much as I like him/her) find the fox 40 times and save 300 random people. With that said..some of it is a lot of fun..even clearing 5 dozen camps and Jin is a good character to work with in the future...but a game that lacks more meaningful content once the main/side stories are done..doesn't deserve a 9.3 imo and think both recent Infamous titles were better 7/10
This game is everything I wanted the last of us 2 to be. A tragic story that's very dark and brutal, but good enough that it grips you and makes you want to see it through to the end. The combat was very smooth, I loved the option to stand off with enemies, or attempt to stealth your way through a camp without being seen, being able to utilize the ghost weapons and techniques you learn throughout the game make it that much more fun. I didn't feel forced to play one way or the other, or like I was being punished by the game for not being able to go unseen through every enemy camp. The main story did feel a little on the short side, but the world is full of side tales and tasks to complete to keep you busy beyond the ending, without feeling like filler, while also tying into events of the main tales, instead of feeling like random events. I have a hard time talking about this game and finding anything negative to say about it. I expected it to be good, but it went above and beyond the expectations I had for it. As disappointed as I was that it got pushed back to July, I feel like this game was the best send-off for the ps4, as we head into the new generation of consoles.

A work of art with fluidity in its gameplay and a striking soundtrack. The atmosphere that the game offers is solid, where through its narrative it shows the dilemma between honoring traditions or defending its people with the stealthy art of thieves. Despite some minor technical problems and the adequacy of the dubbing when changing the order of execution of some missions, it is worth every penny. Congratulations to Sucker Punch who, alongside Rock Star with his Red Dead Redemption, showed how to tell a story through incredible art and giving us gamers the chance to see the game with the eyes of Akira Kurosawa!

Amazing graphics, great recreation of Tsushima island to go with great world design. The side quests aren't great, but they're a great excuse for combat which you'll never get bored of.
من اجمل و اروع الالعاب في هذي سنه تتفوق على كل الالعاب في هذي السنه الى الان كنت اتمناء انها تنزل على الجيل القادم لكن من كان يتوقع هذا الابداع
Hands down this just might be the most graphically beautiful game I have ever played, and I played it in a OG PS4 so that's saying something, story is good so is the battle and the exploring is great, 100% recommended.

Ghost Of Tsushima is an absolute masterful open world game, the execution of both the gameplay and story is beyond amazing. Let’s get to the combat, it’s brutally outstandingly perfect it makes both stealth and fights so much engaging every time, let’s not forget about the simple yet complex skill trees that you have to fill up which either add new abilities or new maneuvers. That’s not it there is the boss fights which are called duels, they are absolutely perfect without a doubt, this games screams samurai. The story is absolutely amazing it’s shocking yet hits you with theses well developed characters, even the side quests are filled with character action and most importantly a good story overall. The game looks absolutely beautiful without any doubt one of the most beautiful games out there, not only that but the soundtrack is top notch seriously outstanding. The open world nature is also done extremely well, the game always makes you want to explore the entire world which is amazingly the main focus. Ghost Of Tsushima is a must have from its perfect combat and open world to its amazing story, it’s always filled with things to explore from side quests to amazing duels it has it all! (A Masterpiece 5/5) You Must Play It!

Хорошая игра, очень красивая и атмосферная, не хватает новой игры+, надеюсь завезут позже, хочется возвращаться в игру.
The story is 9 the game play is 9 the looking is 9 Everyone is very a very good writer and is very helpful for all of us in the past and for the most liked video and the most popular and most important things to do is with
Really enjoyed exploring this rewarding open world. Usually these games have filler that doesn't mean much, however this game makes it worth the time to 100%. Glad I bought this instead of TLoU II
Amazing story and background. The world is very well-built and fun to play. Some games are very concerned about give you a good experience en engines that simulates reality, but forgets the fun. In GOT you feel inside the game, and it improves the immersion if you use headphones with 3D audio. The nature sound, how you guide Jin with the nature, based on the wind and birds, and foxes. The battle is fun, something I didn't see since Shadow of Mordor. The Stealth is pretty fair, it works! Jin is a samurai who is learning to be shadow assassin, no one teaches him how to do it, so he has its limitations. It makes sense to me. The characters are deep, and you care about them. Amazing game. 10/10.
In my opinion this is a GOTY period! Excelent story, excellent gameplay mechanics and extremely beautiful views in the entire map! Congrats for all the people related to its construction... really amazing!!!
An absolutely gorgeous game, cleaned 1st map before ending act 1, I don't use fast travel coz the game is just way too gorgeous, broken stealth and funny enemy A.I aside, the game is just absolute fun and GRAPHICALLY (looking at u halo) outstanding!
I'm about 30 hours in so think it's time to write a review. Game world is beautiful, really feels alive. Combat is some of the best I've ever played. I love having to change stance depending on the opponent, which is great fun when you're surrounded by many different types. The story so far has been enjoyable, but it's the side missions and characters that I've enjoyed the most. My favourite game of the year, just really great fun .
An extraordinary game created by Sucker Punch. There is something about this game's world that makes me get lost into and this is coming from someone who doesn't like exploring and grinding.The game has a good and a simple story with very good characters. The combat system is brilliantly designed and gives you enough freedom to use it. Lastly this game has one of the best soundtracks. Overall an amazing experience, must buy!
If it wasn't for the lowsy fight response it would be a 10. I do feel that the patch would have to give us a lock on system instead of dumbing down the ai. Also the final battle at the ship is trash now because dumb AI will wait for you to make a move on the part of the plot and story, I did related, enjoyed and even went through the pain of some npc's. I am waiting for anything that this game want to bring, DLC, GOT2, As long as they forget progressive bs and stick to games
El juego es exelente, la historia es sencilla pero embolvente. Ya necesitabamos un juego con esta tematica y poco ecplorada en los videojuegos es increible. Esperemos sigan explorando esta tematiga y no arruinarla con toques fantasticos inecesarios.
I had to make an account just so I could give some more support for this gem. I will play this game multiple times no question about it! They can’t keep physical copies on the shelves in Japan if that tells you anything about how popular it is. A lot of the negative reviews are people mad about TLOU2 or feel the game is appropriating Japan. Again.. This game is literally flying off the shelves in Japan so apparently the game is widely appreciated. The user score doesn’t lie.
Great game Sucker Punch!!! I am really enjoying the story & like how it’s based on historical events. Combat is easy to get used to & fun to upgrade skills, armor & weapons. I am really enjoying the feel & mood of the world. Although day/night cycles are quick, i love the various weather changes, fog, leaves blowing around & grass fields flowing in the wind!! The sunsets & sunrises are some of the best I’ve seen in a video game! There are truly some beautiful moments to take in! The guiding wind feature is really cool too! The load times are very quick also, you’re not waiting long to get into the action! There is a reason why Ghost of Tsushima has the highest user review score on Metacritic! It is sad to think that GOT is probably the last game i will buy for my PS4 :( On the other hand, what an excellent game to end the PS4’s reign!!!!! In case you were wondering, i am loving this game!!!!! :)
Yeah gotta be honest, it's fine - but it is no more exceptional than PS4 exclusives like Days Gone which got mediocre reviews for some reason. In fact I would say Days Gone is better. The story is average, and the gameplay is classic run around, get a side quest, follow a fox, kill some mongrels, repeat. Combat is like an Arkham game, but a little worse. Main character just isn't that likeable either. But still, a good way to pass some time!

Just finished this game, and wow, it is amazing. I have been gaming since pac-man was cutting edge, and ghost of tsushima rates right up there with the best games I have ever played. Everything was well done, the gameplay, characters and their stories, and the world itself, even the music was outstanding. This game is truly a pleasure, a great experience, and an epic adventure. Thankyou sucker punch!
This game was a masterpiece. The combat was fun and satisfying throughout the entire game. I recommend playing on hard or lethal to fully enjoy the gameplay. The story was amazing, and it's really impressive how much thought and care they put into depicting the world of feudal japan. The graphics are the best I've ever seen on a ps4. What's more impressive is the incredible artistic flare that the devs used to create a truly beautiful scenery. The photo mode is perfect for capturing beautiful moments while your playing. The outfits for Jin are so sick it's hard to stick to just one. The sword combat is reallyyyy satisfying, and I feel so bad ass when I perfectly slice up multiple enemies and then slowly sheathe my sword back in the hilt. I felt the spirit of Japan coursing through my veins. All in all this is now actually one of my favorite games. Sucker Punch was truly able to outdo their previous games. From Sly Cooper to Infamous, and now GoT. They truly evolve with every new game they create.



this game is everything i have asked for this year. there is just so much good stuff in this game that i still can't quite get enough of it, even after about 45-50 hrs of playtime. if you own a PS4, if you like games with a "vibe",if you cherish immersion and if you're looking for great mechanics... get this game
Достойный представитель эксклюзивов Playstation, не шедевр безусловно, но очень достойно. Платина взята.

First of all I will not post things like how long the game is or any spoilers. Those who are interested can check out IGN's review on youtube. Now if you are still here let me tell you to what you can look forward to. This is the BEST open world game money can buy you. Very Authentic and original story. You will be captivated from the beggining till the end. The game is set in the beautiful scenic setup of Japan and the views are just stunning. The best parts of the games are always the combat which is very versatile but the best part is that there is no such thing as levels in this game. Even a guy who just started the game can defeat the final boss even without upgrades. So you don't have to worry about being on a certain level in order to do a mission. But if you do decide to level up and upgrade then you are in for a treat. The best armours in the game are acquired throughout the main quests and although the other armours come qith their own perks but theones you aqcuire in the main quests will give you the best perks. Do upgrade your items to the maximum level possible to enjoy the beauty of the game. But do be reminded that upgrading these items will NOT make you overpowered in front of enemies and you still have to be good in combat. The upgrades will slightly reduce the time it takes to kill the enemies which is very i significant. While you max out at everything it does not mean the game will be easier and any enemy in the game can still kill you. All in all this game is designed to give the players the most immersive open world gaming experience. While in other games you have to do some side quests which we do not want to play because they are boring this game provides side quests which are at times even more entertaining than the main quests. In Conclusion Ghost of Tsushima is the best Open world game that has been made till date. Right now this is the most beautiful and interactive Open World game that has ever been made and even after finishing it you can see yourself revisiting this game just to relive as the Samurai and the protector of Tsushima.
A competent, entertaining game but it's nothing you haven't done before unfortunately. The flood of 10s are a symptom of Metacritic scoring where a game is either a 10 or a 0 and everything else is pointless. A game doesn't need to be groundbreaking to be entertaining, and I certainly got my fun out of it. However by the end of it, it suffers from what most overly long open world games do and that's when you've got to the end, you're just repeating what you've already done for several hours just to clear the map. It's hard when you're near the end of the game to be arsed to follow yet another fox to a shrine or a golden bird to a haiku for a headband. I used to wonder why on earth people said games were getting too long but now I agree. You've completed all the game has to over long before you're actually finished. Complete slog by the end to finish the story so I could sell them game before it dropped in value as I doubt I'll ever feel the need to replay this game or remember anything from it that much. However, as stated, entertaining enough for a while but not worth £50.

Gra to mieszanka najlepszych elementów Wiedźmina 3 i Assasins Creed Origins - moich ulubionych dotąd gier tego typu. A wszystko to cudownie wystylizowane na kino samurajskie. Do plusów należy zaliczyć również przeniesienie większości sterowania z assasina i innowacyjny system wskazywania kierunku do wybranych zadań. Jednym słowem - gra to czysta zabawa, z wyrazistymi, dopracowanymi postaciami i taką samą rozgrywką.
I have to start by saying that this game is a MASTERPIECE.The story,characters,combat are amazing.The story shows that the war with the Mongols brings the darkess parts of people out,and make them go to extreme limits to get thing's done.Mostly all of the characters have the same moral's and beliefs on how to handle the Mongols some have their own way on how to handle them. One of the endings is sad,emotional,and heartbreaking, that just shows how much effort they put into this story.The combat is very huge even though most of the combat is like from games like the Batman Arkham series,Sekiro,Assassins Creed series,and The Witcher Sucker punch made it work,and make it look smooth and better in my opinion.The game may need a few improvements like some glitches need fixing,way points need to show when you are raiding or sneaking into Mongol camps when trying to destroy catches or freeing birds and also they needed to add a toggle aim like in Assassins creed and the Witcher so I can know where to fight the enemies,but other than that the game is GREAT 10/10.

I was drawn into the game minutes into playing. After watching what I have to admit is the greatest opening introduction into a game I have ever seen, I was all-in. Actually went back to replay the prologue just so I can soak in the opening again. I'm about 40 hrs in and cannot seem to put this game down.
Es muy buen juego, la forma en la que cuenta la historia, su combate tan bien hecho, muy recomendable para comprarlo si te gustan los juegos rpg y la cultura japonesa
I'm going to go ahead and give this a 10. Not because it's perfect - there are certainly some repetitive and boring elements. There are moments when you end up hunting marks on a map (although the animal system is a very smart way to try to do away with much of that). But as a package, it feels coherent, and complete. All the little moments add up to a sense of place. This is in contrast to a game like AC Odyssey, which had great flourishes, but didn't feel grounded - too much teleporting around, too disjointed. In this game, all your actions feel like a meaningful part of the plot. Nearly all the side quests came across as part of the central narrative arc - Jin Sakai's transformation into a myth, and what it felt like to be the human going through that experience. And when, on those rare moments, all the various skills and tricks came together, hoo-boy this game is up there with the best in terms of making you feel like some kind of conflicted super-powered bad-ass.


Amazing game. Naughty Dog should learn a thing or two about how to make an amazing video game like this without the “politically correct” **** Gameplay is phenomenal, the graphics are brutal, one of the best I’ve ever seen. The story is logical, fun, and very well written. Overall the game is perfect. GOTY no doubt. 10/10. Props to the guys at Sucker Punch! Amazing game that everyone should play!
I seriously believe this game is the stronges contender to the title of GOTY 2020. The gaphrics are amazing and the story is good, but the best thing about this game is the liberty it gives to the player as there are multiple ways of getting rid of enemies. Besides this multitudes of moves and tactics the fighting mechanics are very fun. I think comparing it to assassins creed is not doing it justice. This is more on the higher level of Oblivion! I wish I could give it 9.4 because of the minor glitches and lack of great soundtrack but other than those small flaws this game is perfect.

Ghost of Tsushima é um excelente game. Ele cativa com uma ótima gameplay, tem uma história muito interessante tanto com os contos de Jin (missões principais), quanto com os contos de tsushima e contos míticos (missões secundárias). A combate do jogo também é incrível fazendo o jogador sempre se desafiar mais e mais. O game tem dois problemas: a câmera em combates em lugares fechados e os gráficos que não são tão bons quanto o esperado, porém o game e tão bom e tem tanto a se explorar que até se esquece dos problemas apenas com o ato de se escrever um haiku ou fazer um desafio de cortar bambus. No geral o game é ótimo e vale muito a pena comprar e platinar.

Not only does this game play well it is absolutely insanely beautiful. I love the history and lore especially with my two favourite civilizations colliding. ticks all the boxes. the combat is so addictive i barely did any stealth unless necessary. I really hope there's dlc because after i platinum this game i will want more.
This game is just amazing,the soundtrack,the history,the graphics,the characters,the gameplay....everything.The is just a masterpiece,don’t pay attention to metacritic’s score,the community score is always more reliable.
La verdad un juegazo no puedo dejar de pensarlo lo empecé a jugar y ya quiero seguir la ambientación los gráficos jugabilidad musica es una obra de arte en todo sentido gracias por traernos un gran juego de samurais felicidades!!! Ya que tengo un sabor mal de boca con el pasado exclusivo de Sony. GRACIAS!!!!!!!!!♥️♥️♥️♥️

Didn't expect much from this title going into it, saw little to no promo, just the E3 teaser in 2018 really. This is the first game I have 100% completed.. EVER... It is seriously that enticing. I put in so many hours to beat it, that I don't know how people did it as fast as they did. This game is a 10/10 sleeper hit.

Great combination of open world ending up with a beautiful immersive experience. Basically no loading time, no painful grinding, almost no fast travel restriction, no unnecessary repetitive dynamics (like getting off your horse to pickup something or even calling it in ridiculous places on the map or being forced to walk on some cutscenes, this is reduced to a minimum) the combat feels like it can be mastered and it makes you feel like a samurai all the way
Adorei o jogo,gráficos sensacionais,a jogabilidade é o ponto forte do game,tive pouquíssimos bugs,quase nada praticamente!! A história é boa,mas não é nada tão marcante!!mas ainda sim me manteve entretido.. Fechou com chave de ouro a geração do ps4!

This game is GOTY if not Cyperpunk 2077, I really like it, the story is so good , and it develops over time until the end, the combat is so addictive, I never felt that before, it's like you are welding a real sword, music and graphics are superb, the drawbacks like the enemies are repetitive, it should have more variety, and much harder it should be, boss fights should be different, not repetitive, but what should we say, it's the way of Samu/Ghost. Overall it deserves 9.5 , but I will give it 10 here
A truly special journey through Tsushima. Compelling narrative, wonderful story, great gameplay and outstanding immersion while paying homage to japanese culture. Must Play.
The Japanese Assassin's creed we've been asking for over a decade. Ghost of Tshusima takes all that we know and love about the assassin's creed franchise and ports it into sucker punches amazing style with a breathtaking setting. The gameplay is phenomenal and its easy to get involved in all the side quest as many of them feel as part of the main story as the main storyline itself. The combat and stealth mechanics are well polished and with the higher difficulty settings as well as more accessibility option the game is perfectly tailored for a challenging but not fair experience. To top it all off the customization adds an amount of flair that makes the playthrough feel unique to the player. The only downsides to the game are primarily house cleaning for instance I played exclusively in Kurosawa mode to enjoy the beautiful 50's Japanese film style graphics, but a mechanic related to which attacks can be blocked and which have to be dodged, was omitted from this mode and made parts of the game more difficult and confusing than need be this could be easily fixed with a simple patch. Overall the game is breathtaking and easy to lose yourself in for hours and hopefully will give sucker punch the opportunity to make more games like it.
Best game I've ever played! ‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌‌
Amazing game! Incredible content overall! There's still bugs (needs some polishing) but nothing too terrible. - Combat flows like a charm. The 'kamae' system is very creative (similar to DMC series, but in a more effective way rather than in a stylish way) allowing hardcore gamers to experience a nice challenge. - Music gives you goosebumps every 5 minutes. - Story's ok. At least, it teachs you that revenge is indeed, a tasteful dish best served cold (hello Neil Druckmann), hah, hah. - Graphics, technically speaking is not the best, but the whole scenario composition is stunningly breathtaking! I'll give it a 9, because it's not a perfect game, but it's almost there.

Game is amazing, got wonderful graphics , combat is very good, however there is no hit lock on enemy and sometimes are few off putting camera angle, apart from that the best samurai experience ever
Ghost of tsushima es un juego que pese a sus defectos aquí y allá logra crear una atmósfera y una ambientación increíble. Creo que es un juego con una historia con momentos memorables. un combate balanceado y un mapa que recompensa el irse del camino y explorar. Es un juego imperdible y mas si has visto el cine de akira kurosawa ya que este juego esta repleto de referencias.

The best way I can describe this game is that it is historically accurate, it feels like assassins creed should’ve felt without all the isu stupidity. It is not on the other hand physically accurate, much like assassins creed odyssey your character tends to feel like a Demi god in their destructiveness. But this game really hits you hard with the story, I personally played the game in Japanese with English subtitles and was way more impressed than with the English dub, but the lip sync for the Japanese dub is awful.
Story: simple story but with very good side quest contents Music: good soundtrack Graphic: easily one of the best in PS4 with the best Photo Mode in game industry Gameplay:the combat in this game is amazing, this really make you feel like a samurai 10/10 for me ;)
One of the best games I have ever played. One of the few open world games, which makes me want to explore and do the side missions. The combat is really deep and the enemies get tougher as you progress. Graphics, gameplay, music - top notch! Only tip - Play the game in ‘Hard’ difficult mode.
This game was truly a pleasure to play. the graphics, design, game play and most of all story was all amazing. genuinely can not find a fault in the game.
I never liked the inFAMOUS games and I'm the type of gal that gauges my expectations of new games based on a studio's previous work. So I was actually gonna pass this game up, but bought it because this summer has been kinda slow when it comes to releases. I was absolutely blown away by it--this game is a straight up masterpiece. I didn't expect the combat to be so fun; I didn't expect the music to be so good and fitting; I didn't expect the art direction to be so beautiful; and most of all, I didn't expect a storyline that was as well-written and moving as Ghost of Tsushima turned out to be. This entire game was a love letter to old Kurosawa movies and is built with such passion, dedication and love that it's breathtaking. When I finished it, I felt empty inside--like something great was over--and that is, to me, one of the hallmarks of a video game masterpiece on my opinion.


The graphics are amazing and the story line too. Not only the main story but the side missions are great as well. Everything about the game is amazing. Would definitely recommend it.

One of the greatest games of all time in my personal opinion. A direct rival to assassin's creed and considering this is sucker punches first go at it, I say they dominate ubisoft hands down. A stunningly beautiful game. Immersive environment. Unbelievably customizable gear and skill sets. I mean I could go on all day about what makes this game a 10 out of 10 but I don't have the time to list all the reasons. All I can say is thank you all for giving us the ultimate samurai experience!
Ghost of Tsushima is a game that truly understands ancient japanese culture. In spite of not being made by japanese people, it truly feels like it was made in Japan.
Beautiful, after 40 hours I can say is still fun. The story feels a little flat sometimes but others sections are masterfully done. A good revenge story with full emotion towards honor and family, tradition and myth also a good example of the scars of war. By far, better written story than others triple A games this year, The last of us 2 was a disappointed for a lot of gamers, but Sucker Punch delivered not only a great game but a relief. The music, scenes, colors, the art work, voice actors put their best to this game and it shows. I highly recommended and thank you SP for this amazing experience.
Everything you could want in a game, great, visuals, great story, great music, great combat, no politician real life bs. No reason not to give the masterpiece a 10/10
It's safe to say I've played this game to death now, having hit platinum, and then proceeding to 100% the collectibles. Reviewed on a base PS4 on hard mode. I thought I'd write this review differently, and list out the nit picks that didn't gel with me in this, because so much of the game is fantastic. Everybody knows by now the game is a winner, so what's not so great in it? Spoilers: game is definitely worth a purchase, If you have a PS4, I say go for it. It runs like a charm even on a base system. It looks breath taking, as many have said already, and a wonder they got it to work the way it does (inc fast loading) on what amounts to 7+ year old hardware at this point. So, a few things. I dislike that you have so many charms (basically for player builds), but you don’t feel compelled to really try them. Many of them for me were superfluous from really early on, and the ones you do need you'll probably have them equipped the whole game, to never be removed. I thought the dev's could have made the game demand using charms for some parts. The game combat tips that happen in mid-fight are annoying, if you're in a 'wrong' stance, and they even happened well into the game getting into its last act. Option to turn on/off, please Sucker Punch? Option to have them off by default on hard mode, at least, maybe? Once you are done with the admittedly engaging main story, there's the side tales, and mystic tales. I have to say, a lot of the side stuff was what I expected it would be. Much of it is very Assassin's Creed model, e.g. go into a fortress, rescue / free someone, liberate fortress, liberate entire Island, find collectibles in fortress, etc. Let's say you never played an open-world game, or at least not one of the last two Assassin's Creed games, you will be 10/10 blown away by the game as a whole including the whole liberation mechanic. If you've been into AC Odyssey, it's basically more of the same, in a nicer skin, with nicer combat and not as much to get lost in, and there is 'a lot' as it is. What it does mean is it suffers from the same repetition as AC. For instance, there comes a point where liberating a fortress doesn't have the same sort of appeal, you know? And there are around 60 of them if you want to have at it. I found the touchpad button is used in a really cool way, be it bowing, playing flute, or using the excellent wind navigation mechanic (idea lifted from Zelda - Breath of the Wild). This being said, I found it easy to bow by mistake when using the wind mechanic. It's quite sensitive to doing what you don't ask, because it's a swipe as opposed press. I really liked using touch pad, but it wasn't perfect. So all in all, in spite of a few nit picks, a very solid open-world game with insane looking art design and visuals, sound, attention to detail, excellent cut scenes, etc etc. For me, it's an 8/10, but for someone less familiar with this type of game, maybe a 9 or a 10. On that basis I'd really recommend it to someone as their first ever open world game. But even those who know open world games will be very impressed by this game.
No es perfecto y quisiera darle un 9,5 (porque es sólido, con una jugabilidad que lo mete a uno en el mundo y lo hace sentir a uno como un guerrero, es muy distinto a sekiro en el sentido de que se siente más realista. Sería un 10 perfecto (desde mi perspectiva) si tuviera algo que no hubiéramos visto en ningún juego) amo la historia y los personajes. Súper recomendado
I reviewed this game for Hindi speaking viewers. And from the get go, the game is the best representation of a Samurai game ever. The ambience, the Japanese dialog, the combat everything is worth buying the game. This is the best PS4 exclusive released this year. However, SP needs to fix the camera angle . Link : https://youtu.be/M_CXsk2FluI
la meilleure exclu ps4 selon moi le jeu est beau le game play est addictif l'histoire est incroyablement bien écrite. si vous avez une ps4 vous devais prendre GOT

Ghost Of Tsushima is GOTY of 2020 and Game of the Generation for me.Story Combat Music and those scenery environment.Not a single moment where you felt bored.Winds forest animals everything looks so much alive.Mongols invasion and the main villain Khotun khan's tactic to confront samurai.Father like figure Lord Shimura and how the events got turned out.Ending doesn't left you empty shallow like The Last of US 2 left us in such a bad awful negative mood.PlayStation 4 can't get better goodbye than this game.
Good story do not need, perfect graphic or, perfect gameplay . But Ghost of Tsushima have all of those 3 aspects ! Im soo glad that Suckerpunch Studio can celebrating, cus thier new project is ended as masterpiece ☺️⭐⭐⭐⭐⭐




Story is VERY well-written and executed. Combat and especially the photo mode are *chef kiss* Although I do wish there were more armor & weapon upgrades and more side missions; I already maxed out most of my gear by the end of Act 2, so it felt kind of boring being at max everything by Act 3. I also love how each character's Tales are amazingly done - you actually fall in love with the characters and not just Jin. It has been a while since I had to keep switching controllers cuz it keeps running out of battery from playing so much!
While games like Red Dead 2 sacrifice fun and gameplay quality in the name of immersion, GOT nails pretty much anything it does. Stealth and combat are both always viable and fun, exploration is awesome, and the game achieves a cinematic feeling while also being a charm to play. Though the story could be better, GOT is probably the best open world game since Witcher 3.
A great storyline and hard to master combat system is dragged down by a run-of-the-mill open world sandbox game. The story here grew on me as the dynamic between the main character Jin's desire to kill the mongols, contrasts with his samurai upbringing. It really came to a head at the end of the game and I'm glad they went the route they did. Combined with the combat system here that really takes time to master, it makes for a great game, outside of the same old open world side mission style gameplay. All the usual side missions are here: liberate the villages, collect the vanity items, etc. While the combat system helps to alleviate this some, i still felt like I had to grind out some of the early map stuff just to gain enough upgrade points to level up. And not doing those early quests can really hurt as the combat system can be brutal for newcomers. At the end of the day though, the open world stuff isnt enough to kill my interest totally in this game. I'd have much preferred that Last of Us 2 be the swan song for the PS4 but this game does do alot to stand out on its own, especially with how pretty the game looks. I'd easily recommend it to anyone looking for a great game for their PS4 this summer.
對馬戰鬼成功結合了式的開放世界與潛行玩法 以及類似或著說戰鬥模式 雖由外國團隊創作 卻能重現該時代特有的武士電影風格 決鬥前拔刀的氣氛 斬殺時的慢格撥放等等體現得淋漓盡致 加之處處不在的美景 每一禎都像是電影中那樣虛幻的景色 融入俳句、溫泉與斬竹等等日式元素作為提升能力的小遊戲相當合適
One of the best games I've ever played if not the best! Hope it wins GOTY! Still has some bugs tho


The game is oveal okee. Nothing really spectacular about it. The story is meh, the graphics are amazing, music is quite good, combat is very fun in the beginning but get repetitive as number of enemies and variety of them aren't much. Alot of animation are just cut to black but overal a good game.
I have a little bias walking into this as a Samurai and Japanese culture enthusiast, but man did it execute in all of the right ways. To the beautiful scenery and the wonderful hud implemented with wind as your resource to find the next location to keep it minimalist. Combat is engaging and fun, sure it can be exploited, but I have never exploited it and enjoy every second of my time mixed in the fray.Honestly, I would love to stay here and inform you more, but I need to get back to Tsushima.
Excelente historia, excelentes personajes, los paisajes son espectaculares así como el soundtrack )Con unos buenos headsets, sentirás ira, valentía, tristeza, alegría); el equipo de Sucker Punch lo hizo de una manera extraordinaria. El combate no es malo pero tampoco es una revolución tanto así que para algunos pudiera ser cansado y muy repetitivo (Tanto el personaje principal Jin, NPC, Bosses). Una gran flaqueza es la posición de la cámara, que puede resultar un tanto molesto con objetos cercanos, que tiende a obstaculizar la visión, especialmente cuando haces enfrentamientos. El mundo es gigantesco y con muchas cosas por descubrir, en verdad, hay muchas cosas que descubrir y paisajes que admirar. El sistema de personalización de personaje es sumamente versátil y atractivo, aunque no hay demasiadas armaduras, estas pueden personalizarse en color y en mejoras, que te ayudan a tu día a día en la isla invadida por mongoles. La dificultad del juego es completamente subjetiva, en mi particular caso me resultó bastante sencillo en "DIFICIL", habrá que probarse en la dificultad más alta, dicho sea de paso te mata al primer golpe que recibas. Es una experiencia única este juego, ¿Se parece a DS o Sekiro?, la respuesta es No, tiene más parecido a The Witcher y AC. Es un juego que deberías probar y disfrutar por tu propia cuenta, seguramente no te va a decepcionar.
After six years,Sucker Punch presents us with a completely different game once again. The following is divided into two parts for comments of 'Ghost of Tsushima'. Advantages: +The art style of the game is very Oriental, even in the case of high reuse rate of materials, the production team can still control it very well, without aesthetic fatigue. +The combat system, highly realistic action capture, clean sword, highly ornamental performance in the game. +Gameplay and the main narrative complement each other. In the early stage of the game, the fighting style is dominated by the positive samurai sword confrontation. In the later stage, according to the development of the story, there will be more "Ghost" style things to play, which greatly increases the playability of the game. +The exploration elements of the open world are closely related to the player's attribute enhancement, which enhances the player's desire to explore the world instead of just cleaning it up. Disadvantages: - the details of the game still need to be improved,Lot of bug still there. - the expression of the characters is too rigid, especially when the characters are talking. "Ghost of Tsushima" still needs to improved, but the best part of this game is to develop its strengths and avoid its weaknesses. This is one of the essential elements of an excellent game. It is still a excellent game, Not Perfect, but brilliant. Graphic: 10 Music: 9 Narrative:8 Gameplay: 9 Score: 9.3
The most beautiful game I have even seen in my 34yo on this earth, too beautiful. The combat is revolutionary and incredible satisfaying. And evertyhing about this game formula feels natural and REAL. Amazing. + you can pet the fox!!!



Very ambitious game from Sucker punch the developers of Infamous and sly games , Ghost of Tsushima takes off slow through the story but it gets interesting and better each time as you continue the story , the world is so beautiful filled with a lot of activities to enjoy , the wind system really makes the game special and refreshing , there’s no need to open the map every time , highly recommend the game
This is basically a "what would happen if Ubisoft actually decided to input some passion towards their latest AC games" type of situation. Sucker Punch completely came through with a really solid AAA open-world experience that, while clearly taking inspiration from games such as Assassin's Creed, The Witcher 3, Sekiro and others, manages to feel very original. Graphics - its aesthetic is amazing and probably one of my favorites from this generation (if not ever), the graphics are very good albeit not the best and somewhat downgraded from what was shown in the trailers; Story - Decent enough, very engaging and the side quests are really good (very reminiscent of Witcher 3); Gameplay - Combat feels satisfying and impactful (in contrast to the latest AC games or even Witcher 3 which in comparison feel a bit lacking), no hand-holding, lots of tools and ways to customize your play-style. If the enemy AI and overall stealth was as solid as the combat itself, it would have been basically perfect!

Very good game, the environment is beautiful, pushes this generation to the max in terms of visuals while also delivering some breath taking dialogue, loved it ever since it's original reveal, the open world adds so much to it.
For me this is Game of the year so far by a long distance an absolute jaw dropping game over and over with amazing combat and things to find in this world if you've ever wanted to be a honorable samurai or a stealthy assassin then then you will love this its a easy 9 or 10 to anyone who likes single player games
A beautiful swansong, a real masterpiece. Stunning visual with great characters, and the combat is also funtastic. Maybe a stealth section not the gteatest part of the game, but not so bad either. If you like samurai movies or the Japan culture, this game will be a dream come true. 10/10
One of the best games i’ve played in years. I loved how you could mixup the combat mechanics. The exploration was so fun because of the good side quests and different artifact etc to pick up. Can’t wait for what Sucker Punch deliverers next, hopefully a dlc. Game of the year in my opinion!
I just played through the game and this is why I gave it a 9/10: The game does a great job at making me feel like a samurai in a beautiful Japanese setting with lots and lots of honour. The graphics are great. You can see clearly how they didn’t bother to add some irrelevant details to textures but instead rather put their work in the important parts, which make the game look the breathtaking way it does at many points. Fast travel is just as I always wished a fast travel feature would like be, and dying in a chaotic fight isn’t quite as frustrating, when the game manages to reload the map in 2 seconds. The gameplay is hella fun, you unlock different stances during the game and unlock new techniques frequently, which enhance the gameplay rapidly. I really loved the mechanics. Now for the camera. I must say, the camera is no problem at all. I really don’t understand any ist complaining about it. Maybe you just aren’t used to it, but it really does not do all the weird stuff other people complain it would. Choosing the right enemy to attack is not broken nor buggy either. I always attacked the person I intended to attack and it never did anything on its own. Just get used to it lol, don’t cry about it when you’re the problem. The only negative aspect on this game for me is the lack of emotion. It’s kinda stupid when you know that your allies can’t die off because of they did you couldn’t do their side quests. It always felt save doing the main quests, knowing that none of them would end in a death scene of one of the allies. The moment Taka said he wants to be a warrior I knew he’d die soon, but his death wasn’t that tragic, the only thing I was afraid of was Yuna being mad at me. There were no really emotional scenes in the game. The ending scene with the uncle crying had me confused, because I didn’t really understand what the game tried to make me feel, since Jim seemed not to bother at all about. The only moment that had me kinda sad was when my horse died. I really liked the pick your horse and name it part. RIP Sora, 31st July 2020. The story felt pretty generic, but well this isn’t some fantasy game. They tried to make a game about the history of japan and its samurais, and they did a brilliant job in my opinion. Conclusion: Pros: + gameplay + graphics + setting + foxes + camera tbh, I liked it + pretty much everything about the game, except for Cons: - lack of emotion - people complaining about camera
An amazing game that my interest in Japanese colutre loves!! I believe that this could be one of the best ps4 isclusives period, maybe only following behind the likes of horizon zero dawn
Another beautiful masterpiece by PlayStation studios. Kudos to sucker punch for giving us such an amazing experience that I will never forget! I wasn’t sure if I will like the game but it was definitely worth buying. Really excited for the future as we head into the next generation and what sucker punch does next!
Amazing attention to detail was put into this rich world from the main quest( which is surprisingly awesome!) to the extremely unique side stories. This world is vibrant. And the exquisitely simple navigation system is a breath of fresh air among open world games we're used to. Unexpected 10/10 from me! Excellent work Sucker Punch!
Apesar dos bugs, e da falta da qualidade gráfica em ALGUMAS coisas ou momentos; o jogo oferece uma jogabilidade incrível, e satisfatória. Fora a beleza deste, tanto visual, quanto sonora, e tudo isso com uma história linda, um viciante sistema de evolução, e inúmeras coisas secundárias para se fazer, e todas são muito legais e interessantes. Jogo digno de um GOTY.
There are definitely some glaring issues though with lots of buggy NPC's and game textures plus it has probably one of the worst in-game camera systems I've ever seen. It's like playing a PS3 game with 4k graphics. The story was pretty good though, I think that was probably what drove me to actually play through it. Decent game overall but certainly has a ton of issues.
Great game. The story is good, and has a lot of epic moments. Side quests are rewarding. The world is fun to explore, fun enough that I explored and completed everything. So far, this is my game of the year. Let’s see if cyberpunk can beat it.
An absolutely beautiful game, there is no doubt about that. The idea of being a Samurai on a Japanese island in 1274, is a delight to almost every PS4 owner's ears. But the camera and the repetitiveness of missions have really put me off.
Played it until I finished everything 100%. This is an amazing game, great combat and gorgeous environment. Forget the wreck known as Last of us 2, this game deserves far more credit and recognition.




Das Spiel ist unglaublich. Eins der Besten, wenn nicht das Beste Spiel für die PS4 (Und ich hab so ziemlich jedes storylastige AAA Spiel für die PS4 gespielt). Natürlich hat es paar Macken, wie die Kameraführung ab und zu. Das Kampfsystem ist genial. Die Story ist eine der Besten in Videospielen. Man baut eine emotionale Bindung zu den Hauptcharakteren auf. Ich habe das Spiel gestern durchgespielt und bin heute immernoch neben der Spur. Das Spiel bringt Erwachsene Männer zum weinen (wortwörtlich). Die Musik ist genial und passend. Ein genialer Abschluss für die PS4, so wie es TLOU für die PS3 war
Games like 'Ghost of Tsushima' are these rare moments in the video game industry that make me feel like all hope isn't lost yet, for if a game like this can come along -- people are still capable of creating a video game that transcends its medium and becomes a work of art. Let me just state that I'm naturally quite wary of games that have either full or near universal acclaim, especially because such a score (given by """"professional reviewers"""") is almost always inaccurate and/or shady. However, once again, this is one of the rare moments when 10/10 is perfectly justifiable. This game oozes soul and feels more like a labour of love than a commercial product. The art direction is excellent, the story is fun, and obviously there is a lot of eye candy as far as graphics goes. But the highlight for me is the gameplay and the open world environment that truly makes you feel like you're living in an Akira Kurosawa movie. This game is most definitely one of the best 2020 releases by far.

One of the best game i have seeing graphique gameplay senarion all is aĺmost perfect


As a visual open world game it really pushes the limits in ways event he Witcher 3 and Assassin's Creed Odyssey didn't even hit. Coming out at the end of a consoles life cycle has its advantages. The game doesn't reinvent the wheel by any means, giving you a nice combination of what made the aforementioned games amazing smooshed into one amazing setting. The story has a lot of interesting characters and the pacing of their various issues is well done. The game play is pretty tight, though sometimes it gets ganky and you attack nothing or you have a stand off and the camera puts a giant tree branch just so to fill the entire screen. This is rare and often recoverable, but it's a thing that happens. Overall, if you want a massive open world game to fill your time and you love to explore... also, liking Japanese culture might help a bit too, this game is a must.
I haven’t completed Ghost of Tsushima yet, so far I only put like maybe 10-15 hours into the game. Right now I’m definitely getting my money’s worth, the game is really fun and engaging. Red Dead Redemption 2 is still my favorite game this generation but Ghost of Tsushima is my favorite PlayStation exclusive video game I’ve played this generation. The story is really good, that combat is satisfying and fun, the game is beautiful, stealth and AI need work, and I don’t really like the camera. Even thought the game looks amazing, some of the textures are low res and if you ask me the game looked better back when they revealed it in 2018. It’s the fastest best selling PlayStation exclusive game to come out, it even beat The Last of Us 2 in sales. I would recommend everyone to play this game.

Just finished it with 90%+ of all achievements unlocked. The game is amazing: story 10/10; open world: 10/10; combat and other mechanics 10/10: visuals 10/10. Really a great game that's worth investing your time in. 100% recommend

Imagine the result of an orgy between Zelda's BotW - Assassin's Creed - Metal Gear Solid - Vagrant Story - God of War: Visually impressive, great narrative and story, A LOT of weapons and fun diverse game play. Took me 3 days completing the campaign with 50% of progress, still a lot to squeeze, I thought BotW was my favorite game ever, but this surely dethrones it, I´m in love, PERFECT GAME.

Best open world game since Breath Of The Wild. It has consumed my life. Also, it’s breathtakingly beautiful. I usually never take screenshots, but I must have taken over 100 in this game.

Themes of honor and vengeance run deep through the saga of war torn Tsushima from the main campaign to every little side mission making it one of the most heavy gaming experiences out there. Awesome little touches and mechanics add even more shine to this gem that could only exist through the inspiration of ancient Eastern civilization.

For me, this was the best game for this generation. The reasons are many. For example, the world was very lively and beautiful. Many things you discover on the map are a fun side mission system, and each unit has a separate serial story. The fighting system is elaborate and has a challenge, and each enemy has its own way of fighting that depends on the peace that the enemy holds. Parkour and climb to win necklaces for each unit special advantage
One of the best single player games of all time. Great combat, visuals, voice acting, and story. The way that you can go into almost any fight the way you want is fun as hell
A familiar gameplay formula rescued by the vibrant setting and absolutely gorgeous design. The combat system is good enough that I didn't start getting bored with it until I was 90% of the way through a completionist run. The story is solid, if not groundbreaking, and well executed for what it's trying to be. The setting and the art are what really sell this game. Exploration is a treat, visually, though I found myself missing the ubisoft towers after a while. It's also the first game I ever got a platinum trophy in, as the achievements are mostly stuff a completionist will find naturally through gameplay. I never felt like I had to grind for anything.
What stands out in this game is the art direction and colors. It's a beautiful game. The weather is amazing, the textures are good. The game is very good graphically There is a lot of open world game that has dead colors and textures.
Just brilliant game with engaging and wonderful gameplay mechanics. Hands down game of the year contestant. A must play for all PS4 owners. Got myself a platinum trophy for the game and I still want more.
With an incredible story and gameplay, with bugs, and some graphic parts without polish. A wonderful culture, with characters who are motivated to be what they are, and the sensitivity to show the lifestyle of the people at that time. The set makes Ghost of Tsushima incredible. Imagine the sequence on PS5.

A very good game. Going to be short review, this is basically if assassins creed had a baby with the witcher, with a samurai theme. If that sounds good to you, you'll probably enjoy this game. The combat never got dull or boring to me throughout my platinum, it's very fun. Sucker punch crafted an amazing open world; and I was constantly amazed at how beautiful it was. I was also was constantly surprised by how deep this game was, whether that be by side content, the robust rpg elements, rewards, or even cosmetics. Story-wise it was good, nothing really amazing imo. The game had decent amount of A.I issues that did break the immersion for me personally, and I wouldve like to have seem more mission design variety. Overall, though I did really enjoy this game, and can easily reccomend if you like the mix of AC and the witcher. Pros: + Open world is amazing, one of the most aesthetically pleasing ones to look at and explore + Combat is fun and addicting + Mythic tales, and shinto shrines, I even liked the haiku's a lot (side content) + Surprisingly robust and deep rpg elements + Decent story + A lot of content So-So's: * Jin definately grew from an uninteresting character to somewhat enjoyable by the end, and that goes for almost all major side characters. * Khotun Khan was under-used, could've almost challenge Vaas (Far cry 3), as one of the more badass villains, but alas..no * Side missions overall were ok, the variety was def there...but still some were interesting, some were generic. Cons: - Stealth was too basic. - Enemy A.I ranges from mediocre, to average. Combat wise, they were decent, but everything else.. below average- mediocre. - Mission design could've had more variety. Ride, Combat, stealth was mostly it.
Graphics = Amazing. the texture is not the highest quality but the world design is spectacular. No matter where you are, this field is designed for taking screenshots. Taking photo in every location ,situation and angles is gorgeous. Story = Great. (no spoiler) Gradually you will unlock stealth skills and wepons ( which is very strong and able to kill enemies easily) However as time goes by enemies get stronger and sometimes you have to use stealth skills in order to complete the mission. Jin (You) don't wanna fight these stealth ways because its too easy and unlike Samurai. This players struggle, and Jin's struggle are perfectry matched. Combat system = the best At least this game has best combat system compared to any other openworld game. stealth combat is too easy for me but I know its designed easy. but the Samurai way of combat is soooooo addictting. you have 4 stances. so variation of combat is a lot. and the parry system is sick! You wanna wait thier attack to counter attack them and thats the Samurai way. If you play this game, im sure you automatically being Jin. Gameplay = 10/10 One of the things that I really admire this game is that no minimap on my screen. ''Wind guides you'' such a beautiful idea. When I play RDR2, I sometimes off the minimap to more into the game. but SP knows how to make players into the game. HUD is simplified and every OW game should be like that.
I find this game amazing it has a beautiful crafted open world wehre I lost my self while playing becaus I enjoy it to ride or walk through this amazing world and the combat system is great you have different stances for different enemy types and you have to flow through the enemy's like you dances and the story is great it has epic fun and sad moments like every good movie I sit in front of my TV and cried at some parts of the story also the side quest are beautiful crafted missions with interesting Charakters and aswome movie moments so everybody go buy it love it and enjoy it
Disfrute del mundo de Tsushima un juego que vale la pena comprar y que ofrece varias horas de diversión para perfeccionar ese estilo de combate, definitivamente un muy buen juego me encantó.

Love it, ofc it has its bugs but overall very satisfied. Already looking forward to part 2 but please take your time. Don’t want it to end up like some other part 2 game that won’t be named

Undoubtedly a masterpiece and a true love letter to Japan told by Sucker Punch. We can see how much impact it has, completely selling out physical copies in Japan. It loses one point for me for controls being a bit janky, and the battle camera isn't the greatest. If I were to break it down: 5/5 Graphics 4.5/5 Story 4/5 Gameplay
The writing is pretty solid and so is the voice acting. The graphics is one of the best of all time and the music is really good as well. The combat is satisfying whilst the stealth is way too easy as the enemy ai is dumb as. The exploration is very serene and the locations you find never get old until the very end. Overall this game is great with nothing except the camera falling below average.
Astonishing visuals, excellent graphics and ambience, simple but interesting story, well developed characters. This is a serious contender for the GOTY award. It’s not a perfect 10 because it tends to get repetitive on side missions like all sandboxes. Must play.

As someone who always watches anime and other Japanese influenced media this truly was great seeing very strong references to Japanese culture such as myth's being heavily mentioned and also the way the protagonist struggles with his duty to maintain peace trying to follow Bushido warrior code.The game itself was graphically beautiful and often allowed for exploration of what the island had to offer,most games don't create worlds with this many quests while allowing for combat to become even more difficult after every time it starts becoming less challenging.Overall one of the best games I have played this year.
Amazing game! Delivered all of what gamers needed & been waiting for. Thus giving great gaming experience, for me definitely best game since God Of War 4. So yeah I think everyone would enjoy Ghost of tsushima!
10/10 this game can be whatever the player wants. Hack and slash your way through or stealth your way through. It also has alot of artistic stuff in it (I'm not too artsy but loved the haiku's and always spent a while crafting the perfect haiku for me). This explanation doesn't do the game justice. This game is perfect.
A true samurai game, one of the best games of the generation, sucker punch delivered much more than i have imagined that said, if you love this genre of samurai/ninja histories in games you definitively must buy ghost of tsushima!

The game is simply amazing and the best PS4 exclusive in 2020 in my opinion. At first I felt a bit out of place with the gameplay since no target lock on was available, but as I progressed it made more sense why its not there. I never once felt bored or tired of fighting enemies head on. It felt great changing stances to counter certain enemy styles of fighting. I often transitioned in style from stealth to publicly announcing my attacks on camps. The music in some missions enhanced my experience. Beautiful music always plays at right moments. I loved the story till the end which made determined to get the platinum trophy, which I did. The game felt well paced. I kept obtaining the techniques steadily as I progressed in the game. The side missions were not boring at all. It was nice to have missions related to the supporting characters like Norio, Lady Masako.. etc. The strongest factor the game has is the beautiful sceneries I kept coming across as I attempted to discover every corner of the map. I noticed different changes in weather and landscapes from one act to another which is welcoming. Sucker Punch put too much care into the game and I thank them very much for it.
Very unique, very special and cool game. Love it! Great graphics, visuals, good combat, excellent story. Game reminds me of Assassin's creed mixed with Shadow of Mordor.
If I could say anything about this game, is that I have not played a that has had my attention as much as this game did. The side stories were very interesting, the gameplay was satisfying, but the story telling was on another level. There were some bugs, and frustrating moments, but the story, themes, and gameplay really give this game too level feel. I would also add that the game was set in the most beautiful game world I have seen. I will play this game again and again.
صراحه تمنيت ‏تكون افضل لكن على الخريطه والي فيها و قيم بلاي و شخصيات تستاهل مع اني كان ودي شي اقوى من كذا
To be honest, this game should be the game of the year (by far...so far). Fun combat,also have a really nice open world, and the music in gameplay is just AMAZING. And more important... the feeling of playing is "nice" for real. TLOU2 it forces you to a lot of things (like a kill dogs u.u,play with Abby 6+ hours,etc)
Easily one of the best games I've ever played. No other game has come anywhere close to the graphic quality of this game and it's use of HDR lighting to achieve such beautiful scenery. The small details such as wiping blood off your blade or petting foxes that lead you to shrines is a treat and the combat is incredibly satisfying
This game has a soul. One of the best open world games for me. I barely even used fast travel or the map. Usually in a open world game I'm used to be with my eyes on the map - all the time. The wind mechanic is wonderful. Its not only worth to finish the game - but also to get Platinum trophy. I love this game.


Amazing game! Best game I played so far this year! Thank you Sucker Punch! Beautiful open world, music, story, interesting characters and great gameplay.


Open world classico con un'ambientazione che ricrea alla perfezione l'atmosfera Giapponese. Combat sistem bello e divertente che alle difficoltà più alta alla uccisione del nemico di da tanta appagamento. Storia di secondarie e principali molto avvincenti ed emozionanti.


One of the best games I've played recently. Mechanically I found it similar to shadow of mordor and the world building style similar to red dead redemption. Leaving the option of choosing your own fate was a nice touch.

I finally just go around to beating this game after doing a 100% run. This game is absolutely amazing, and likely the best open-world game since the witcher 3. Most open-world games are insanely repetitive and get boring after the first 10 to 20 hours or so. There's only been a handful of open-world games that I will actually want to see and do everything, and Ghost of Tsushima is absolutely one of them. It definitely still has its repetitive moments, but its broken up with its attention to detail, and gorgeous art direction. I constantly found myself switching outfits, slow walking, and sheathing my sword over and over again simply because it looked awesome. I often found myself using the games amazing cinematic features. This is hands down one of the best games on the ps4, and its a fantastic way to end the console life-cycle. Way to go Sucker Punch, you absolutely nailed it.
Masterpiece all around, with satisfying combat that doesn’t go stale combined with an amazing soundtrack and visuals. My first time giving my review of a game because it’s that enjoyable, definitely in my personal top three.
Sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn sn
This game is truly the best game of 2020 so far, barely beating out FF7, and beating the S**T out of The Last of Us 2, what a horrible game that was, buy this game, this is a must buy, from opening to ending this is game of the year so far.

I have always loved all Japanese things, especially the culture and story of japan. I absolutely loved this game from start to finish. Even though it has some flaws like the facial expressions and animations, especially in the Japanese track, these flaws doesnt make the game less immersive. A no brainer 10/10. And i would even say it rivals The Witcher 3, maybe even better in some ways.
Great game deleted the last of us 2 only half way through for this game. The combat is awesome and you actually fell connected to Jin and all the side characters.
El juego es muy interesante excelente si te gusta la cultura japonesa y mas manejar una katana. Mundo abierto muchas cosas por hacer gráficos fenomenales.
Шикарная игра! Приятно буквально все, играется на одном дыхании, все красиво и круто! Особенно визуал! После лгбт шной ласт оф ас, прямо вообще игра года! 10 из 10 . Я самурай) ты самурай) браво сакер панч, удивили! Говорю искренне и честно! Лучшая игра 2020 года!

Просто очень крутая игра! Японский стиль - мне очень зашел! Хорошая история и сюжет! Боевка тоже супер и прокачка. Круто!
If you're a massive fan of medieval Japan, you will love this game. Brings light to an often overlooked part of the mongol invasion that happened in the 13th and 14th centuries. I've heard of the invasion of Japan and how they were stopped by storms, not that that they actually landed and how the opening of the game is true to history. The gameplay and swordsmanship is amazing. I've always wanted to play a game about samurai, and this game should show developers that Japanese history is a rich trove for adventure, RPG and action games. Here's to hoping either sucker punch or someone else will make a boshin war game like this

From the beginning crawl with the epic music and outstanding visuals of the Mongolian war ships oh man I knew I was in for something. The combat is difficult at times but it makes me want to perfect it and become a better fighter. Exploration is fun, seeing new locations and accidentally stumbling upon a war camp or hot spring, and the missions are awesome. The storyline with Ishikawa and his ex-student had me more invested than half of The Last of Us 2, if you've played you'll know what I mean. Haven't finished it but I have put many hours into it already. It's fantastic.
Beautiful, fun with many interesting mechanics, it plays like a dream with perfectly mapped out controls. The characters are interesting, not cardboard cutouts, flawed people without being beaten over the head with it. It pulls you in and keeps your attention! Can't wait for more games like this from Sucker Punch.
very fun game to play but with the problems it has it very hard to enjoy as your fighting it most of the time (cam) so much to do so invested into world if the problems get fixed it a easy 9 but due to them it a 8 pros 1) world is so nice and very cool to be in 2) combat is good to use cons 1) the cam controller are so bad half the your fighting it to do what you press 2)when scaling walls you player with jump into walls inside of what you aim at or not grab on to thing he meant to

Honestly one of my best games, I got it a few days ago and the graphics and combat system are just stunning with the story, the world and the satisfaction that you get from playing this game, it's as if sekiro and AC were mixed together and this is the outcome.

I haven't felt the feeling of wanting to play this game so much since I first played Destiny back in 2015. The story is extremely well crafted, with an actual meaning and has really something to learn from. The actual gameplay can be a little repetitive, but because it has been so well thought and executed, in my personal experience, you wouldn't get bored from it. All in all, you should definitely play this game in 2020.

I wouldn’t give this game a 10 if it didn’t deserve it. After putting countless hours into the game and finally finishing it, I now can say that it has pushed past the nostalgia I have for my previous #1 and 2 favorite games and become the greatest game I’ve ever played. It’s story, gameplay, music, and visuals culminate into something relatable to living an epic loosely fictionalized story similar to films Mulan or Gladiator. I rarely have films, let alone games, move me emotionally but this game multiple times had me from yelling in excitement to tearing up from it’s beautiful sorrow. The only issues like facial animations, hidden cameras and ai stealth issues are greatly overshadowed by everything else that makes this game a masterpiece. Believe the hype, this game is worth the asking price.
This game gets everything right, it has an amazing story, awesome graphics, super fun gameplay and it has a lot to explore. There are so many things in the game that u can collect and interact with that are really fun to find. The wind mechanism is really cool as well. This game deserves Game Of The Year.
Great open-world action game. There is a lot to do and explore in this game. There is also a lot of diversity in playstyle whether you want to master sword combat or would rather be stealthy. Or if neither of those interest you archery is an option or direct combat using primarily combat tools instead. The game has one of the most beautiful environments I have seen in a realistic open world game. I took so many screenshots and recordings while playing this game. The pacing of the game is very dynamic. One moment you may be meditating on writing a haiku or honoring Shinto shrines while the next you may be liberating a farmstead through brutal combat. As far as the story goes there is the main plot which has great character development and apparent and impactful themes. There are many side missions also that are very unique and develop all of the main support characters you meet along the journey.
Excellent open world experience. Breath taking graphics graphics that looks some what similar to a Zhang Yimou film. Amazing music. and rock solid swordplay. Although as a first in a brand new new IP, there is plenty of room for improvement and plenty of areas of game play that could use more depth, such as using a wider variety of weapons like the Naginata which was a commonly used weapon of the samurai of this era. Stealth mechanics has plenty of room to grow compared to the benchmark stealth games out there.



This game is great, it has a rough and beautiful world, its gameplay is incredible, the only bad thing is artificial intelligence, it was a bit stupid, but the patch I improve a lot, 100% recommended game and best of all, it is not a sexualized game, it is for Every intriguing story that could be asked for more deserves everyone's support.9.5
I can't describe how much I love this game. The first game I "platinumed"ever. It's not a lie when I tell you that I wasn't bored once in my entire playthrough. The game looks and plays amazing. Play the game on hard or lethal, it makes it a lot better..
- скучный мир - сюжет в стиле Марвел - идиотское управление камерой, которое более менее пофиксили с патча 1.05 + интересное исполнение навигатора по миру + красивая японская тематика, пейзажи + легкая механика боев = если не раздражают и не портят настроение откровенно тупые диалоги/доп. квесты/очевидный сюжет/перебор с максимально одинаковыми событиями по мере движения по миру, то норм игра чтобы почилить и побегать по красивым пейзажам
i did not have this much fun since rdr2 this game is beautiful with a good story.i say it is a must buy .the loading in this game is revolutionary the whole map loads in 5 sec.the combat is fun you do not have to grind for getting a better gear which is rare in 2020.get this game pls you are gonna love it!

Fun and intuitive, gameplay never gets stale and the world an environment is absolutely stunning. I have never stopped so many times just to take photos. A few minor nitpicks with the game but those are irrelevant in the grand scheme of the whole game. 10/10 can't wait to platinum this
Мое уважение, Sucker Punch, ждал эту игру с момента анонса, наконец дождался, ни капли не разочарован. Чуть больше недели на прохождение, играл запоем. Достойный сюжет, боевая система, восхитительный, иммерсивный открытый мир в японском сеттинге. Внимание к деталям особенно оценят любители самурайских боевиков. Рад, что у Сакер Панч всё получилось, у игры отличные отзывы и продажи, несмотря на слабоватый пиар. Всем рекомендую.
Ghost Of Tsushima is the most beautiful game I've ever played. In the runnings for favorite game of all time. GOTY hands down. I'm a pretty critical individual and don't review games too often - Ultimately, I would say 9.5/10, but the execution and extent of what they've accomplished with this title is deserving of perfect marks. Graphics/aesthetic - Often times I found myself traveling through the open-world in astonishment of its sheer beauty. No 2 places look the same, and there is a massive dynamic to the geography of the land of Tsushima. This game was able to take me away to a kind of "happy place" w/o causing analysis paralysis. Incredible. Audio - I'm a big sound guy and the soundtrack wasn't anything too memorable to me, but it was still killer. I really enjoyed how Sakai's flute was incorporated into the game, albeit seldomly. The score definitely helped "get me" at the end when transitioning into the credits. Beautiful. Story - Was incredible. A couple of parts made me go "hmm plot convenience/hole?" but those were few and far between. The game is true to a samurai's tale, which was a huge deal to me. Characters - Great development from beginning to end. Gameplay - My favorite game mechanics to date (for the most part). I love not having to wait for stupid animations when doing menial tasks like collecting bamboo or picking up linen. This is something that bothered me with titles like RedDead2 and Farcry5... like... why do I have to watch the character pick leaves or skin an animal every time? I have things to do. Please don't waste my time. However, just like in RD2, this game allows you to approach most situations however you like (stealth/aggressive) BUT sometimes makes you handle certain tales specific ways, which can confuse gamers... Especially if they are stoned... ¯_(ツ)_/¯ Combat - is killer and makes you feel like a legit samurai. Super smooth and graceful. The way you level feel clean and gradual as well. The only gripe here is a lock-on system would have been beneficial. Especially for indoor combat. But ultimately I found it so fun that I can't even start to complain about that. Standoffs and the last stance you acquire are so pimpin when used in succession* Conclusion: Bravo Sucker Punch. Bravo. This game is truly phenomenal. Can't wait to see what's in store from you guys next! Critics giving this game an 8.3/10 discredits their ability to analyze a game from a player's non-bias perspective. Ghosts better beat "tlou2" (which got a 9.4 meta) for GOTY or we'll know there's some shady stuff going on behind the scenes - That game was a burning dumpster fire. This game is a timeless treasure.

My first ever game I cared to actually get a platinum trophy and post a review on Metacritic. I also got all the artifacts, records and banners, etc, to prove I played game thoroughly. Honestly this is one of the best games I have ever played. The combat is really fun and the story is engaging. The world is beautiful and Sucker Punch really captured the mysticism of Feudal Japan. Even though the fast travel was "fast," I found myself just traveling everywhere I needed to go. Everywhere I went was just an amazing vista, and I felt that this whole world was hand crafted with love and care. I found hours of my time melted away just playing this game living in it's world. The combat at first will take some getting used to, but as you progress the story you really get to feel that the combat evolves to how you want to play. I never felt locked down to the Ghost or the Samurai play style. Sucker Punch gave me the choice on how I wanted to play the game, and made all my battle encounters exciting. The story at face value is cliche, but the way the narrative progresses you see lots of little nuances that just keeps you captivated all the way to that powerful ending. The characters are so well written and really memorable. The pacing I felt was centered around player agency and I really enjoyed that you can experience Jin's transformation alongside him. It really felt like I played the game and was part of the story and not the other way around. Heck there were some moments in the game that had more emotional weight compared to the entirety of other "Story" driven games. A few cons of the game, is that the camera can be a little janky at times. It can get caught in the environment blocking your view. Enemy AI still needs some tuning for more immersion. I really wish some of them just didn't stand there or did not react when they say a fallen friend. I know the lethal mode was just released, but it just feels like the enemies hit harder and not smarter. I really didn't experience any bugs in my play sessions so I can't complain about that. Another small nit pick would be that the NPC models do get repeated a lot and that you do rescue a lot of the same characters on the road. The game is fun, really fun. I want to give it a 9.5 but Metal Critic won't allow it. Your doing yourself a disservice if you don't go out and play this experience. Regardless if the game did anything new or not Sucker Punch stuck to core values and made the game fun. I will be anxiously waiting for a N+ mode to play this game a second time. GOTY in my eyes, go play it!

The most gorgeous game I have ever experienced on console. Beautiful feudal Japanese setting, amazing and immersive User-interface, emotional and thrilling story. I applaud sucker punch studios for delivering an amazing experience. I completed the main story 2 nights ago and I just want more! While it is not completely historically accurate nor perfect (no game is), it absolutely ranks among my absolute favorite games of all time and I highly recommended it to any gamer who enjoys Open world RPGs.


obviously a beautiful game, pretty straightforward story, like able characters, the combat is smooth... being able to confront any mission with stealth or regular combat is a nice option, have a large array of tools to fight with makes combat more fun. I only picked up this game at the suggestion of my friend— I had no previous intention of buying this game ever, once I started playing it became almost impossible for me to put it down. I’ve been having tons of fun just exploring the island and doing the side missions.
The game is an absolute masterpiece, beautiful visuals, the story pulls you in, every side mission has a tale to tell. Every character has a story, you truly become immersed in the world of Tsushima. By the end of the game you truly feel like you have become the ghost, every enemy is terrified of you. If I could genuinely rate this game higher I would, it is my GAME OF THE YEAR.
Where do I even begin... This is by far one of my favorite games. Between the combat, art style, story and characters, I’m not sure words can describe this game. The sword play is spectacular and so fluent. It feels so natural and not clunky at all. Switching between stances and learning how to properly take down opponents is so interesting. The one on one matches have to be my favorite part of the fighting. This game made me want to forgot my horse and walk across the huge map on foot and take in all there is to see. I have never taken so many photos in a game before. Every time I went to a new area I would stop and just look around, eyes wide like a child seeing magic for the first time. The story was so captivating, I never wanted to stop playing. I wanted more and more of the story every time I finished a quest. The twistS in the side stories and the main story were beautifully executed. Seeing Jin turn from a honorable samurai to the Ghost was an experience I will never forgot. The character development from the friends you meet along the way was both heartbreaking and gratifying. I will forever recommend this game to anyone, do yourself a favor and become the Ghost of Tsushima.

This game was incredible. I was so disappointed with Last Of Us 2 so it was nice to get this game not long after. Ghost Of Tsushima was right on time and so refreshing. Assassin‘s Creed needs to take notes. This game was easily game of the year, GREAT JOB SUCKER PUNCH! So much respect for you guys, the way y’all did this game from top to bottom is how a game should be designed. Gameplay was great, storyline was good. So impressed. Thank you for this game. I hope we get more like it because y’all totally pushed the open world & hand to hand combat genre forward.

Tjis game returdned me to the age, when u actually enjiyed exploring the world and felt rewarded for it. By beautiful scenery in one place, by useful items/skills in second. Story is ejoyable, few moment gave me literally goosebumps and it sparked interest in me about purity and minimalism of japanese culture. And thats what game shozld be enough. Gige you a hood time playing it, reward you, and in the best possible scenario - learn from it. The fights are great, intensne and challenging, altough seems too ease on medium diff adter getting some talents/equip. Would recommend to everyone interested in rpg/action mixed game. I really look forward for replaying it in winter time, just composing haikus and petting foxes.
Barely leave reviews on here but thought I'd bump up how much you just play this game. This is how you end a console generation. I'd like to thank Sucker Punch for creating such an immersive world and amazing game. 11/10.

wow me meti en todo el mundo japones antiguo es muy entrañable como esta hecho este mundo con esos paisajes esas vestimentas, esa musica que te llenan de emocion llevo horas jugando y no me he aburrido en ningun momento, talvez no sea tecnicamente el mejor juego pero si es uno de los mas divertidos que he tenido
Zerei hoje a história e mano, que jogão! Um dos meus exclusivos favoritos do PS4. Parabéns a sucker punch por ter feito um game que consegue ser divertido e emocionante.
Simply excellent, I love the term samurai and its history, it is a very realistic game and it enchants the eye with its art, honestly one of the best games I have been able to play on PS4, thank you very much for this wonderful delivery. Definitely this title It has earned a place in the list of my favorite games.
Ghost of Tsushima is indeed an awesome game. Definitely one of the best Ps4 exclusives this gen, imo. Extremely beautiful game.. Can't count the number of screenshots I took! Gameplay and combat are very dynamic and hardly repetitive and is generally extremely fun to play for an open world game. Story was quite impressive as well. Only real qualm I had with thus game is the stealth wasn't great, especially the enemies reaction to spotting you (was all over the place at times). Also, I feel it could have been a bit more challenging. Even the hard difficulty seemed a bit too easy, imo. All in all, this is a fantastic game which is a must play for any PS4 gamer. Good job Sony and Sucker Punch!


Отличная игра. Есть придирки к некоторым механикам, но впечатления от игры они не портят.
Increible, tanto el apartado grafico, la jugabilidad y su historia. Ghost of Tsushima te trae a un capitulo de la historia japonesa como pocos juegos lo han logrado, hay veces en la que su historia te va a dar un golpe en el corazón como también te hará sentir odio. Sucker Punch nos ha regalado un excelente juego y estaré agradecido por eso. Detalle: la expresión de los personajes al demostrar tristeza queda muy robotizado, no muestra expresiones faciales y es cosa extraña porque con inFamous no pasaba.


It's like Assassin's Creed but better with samurai. Better in a way that it has less to no RPG elements, enemies has no level. I hope they fix the climbing and jumping mechanics, it's clunky and messy. Otherwise this game is darn good!
A good Game with impresive graphics but too with same mechanics all time. When you play at first time you see a pretty videogame, but then It seems bored of making similar things killing mongolians and ronins during the rest of The play. Not a ten experience.



I didn't expect the game to be this good tbh Ghost of Tsushima is a gorgeous game, this WILL win best art direction at the game awards. I have not enjoyed an open world this much since red dead 2, it is filled with cool stuff to do, there are different types of side missions. First is your average side mission where you have to kill a guy or save someone, then there are mythic tales (this is where it gets interesting) in these missions you hunt down myths all over the island, very well written and interesting. There are also character tales, you will encounter some characters throughout the story and you can help them in their own troubles outside of the main story, while not as good as mythic stale, still some solid side missions The combat is the best thing about it, it is very satisfying and challenging. You never get tired of the combat in this game The story, while some found it generic, I found it very good and it can get you emotional at times, it is not some masterpiece but it is a story told very well Stealth, I do not usually use stealth in games (not a big fan) it is basic stealth but I enjoyed it The soundtrack sounds like something out of God of War, it is amazing The load times are insanely fast I have a problem with the camera, things get really frustrating at time when you are fighting an enemy and the camera is stuck behind a wall and I also have a problem with unskippable cutscenes and I hope they will bring a New game plus soon Overall, 9.5/10 amazing game


Unbelievable game. I found 3 general disadvantages. First is lip sync. As far as I understood lip sync was done for English language (I didn’t try English voice over). This distracts a little. Second is some animations which some times go wrong. For example some times game overs look like mongol warrior spins a little so his swords are cutting your head off and not you arm or leg. And the third thing I could say is a weak point is the open world it is not so rich with independent events and when you are beating the game for the 4-5 times it is getting boring. But all this things are insignificant. Game is amazing totally worth buying. I live in Russia therefore price is a little different. If I transfer 4400 rubbles for standard edition it makes 60 USD, but due to financial crisis 4400 rubbles are not 60 usd equivalent. Few years before 4400 RUR was 110 USD. As you already guessed nobody got rise so we paid 110 USD for this game but I will pay it again. My final rate: Graphics 9/10 (I would rate it 8/10 but I understand that even PS4 pro can’t handle 10/10 graphics) Story 10/10 no commentary needed Battle mechanics 10/10 (close to other games but still is as complex as Sekiro but more casual so it does not distract you from story too much) Complexity 9/10 (hard level could be a little more interesting) Ability to replay 7/10 Other features 9/10 My final rate is 9/10 but because of haters SJW and other people whose life goal is to get offended. I rate this game 10/10 would buy again
I have played the most fun open-ended Japanese period drama game in my life. It is perfectly presented and boldly challenged the Kamakura era in Japan, which is the least described. Although the game does not correspond to historical facts, it is still a great game.

Ghost of Tsushima: seit langem ein Spiel welches mich nicht mehr los lässt. Das Setting ist authentisch, die Grafik zwar nicht perfekt, aber dennoch wunderschön. Sie wird so gut in Szene gesetzt, sodass eine unglaublich dichte Atmosphäre entsteht. Immer wieder verliere ich mich in der Welt mit vielen Orten zum entdecken, den Geheimnissen oder epischen Duellen. Es ist sehr befriedigend ein immer mächtigerer Samurei zu werden, dennoch warten immer neue Gegner mit anderen Taktiken auf, wodurch es nie langweilig wird. Das Kampfsystem fühlt sich einfach nur gut an. Die kleinen Geschichten sind super in die Welt eingebunden. Ein Spiel im Japan- Setting genau wie es sein sollte!

Wow, what a masterpiece! This game is like a dream come true. Ghost of Tsushima is a wet dream for me as an samurai/Japan-aholic. The beautiful environment, awesome characters, great story line, huge open world, smooth and satisfying combat, armors... this game is just soooo good in everything it offers. I love you SuckerPunch many thanks for this masterpiece
Вау! Правда хорошая игра! Оптимизация, графика харизма персонажей все на уровне. Но Анимация лиц и середина игры подкачали, жду продолжения!

Great game,great graphics,great gameplay and the download is only 47 gbs so perfect game if you have barely any space on your hard drive

Уже не помню какая игра, за последнее время, так затягивала!) Когда купил, с 11 дня и до 3 ночи безвылазно сидел)
A Truly Amazing . Amazing Master piece Game . Not like TLOU part 2 which not fun game . Graphic of the game is terrific . Super control in character ,Love the story Awesome Game, must try it. Super Clam game . You love it.

This game is a must play!! Very addicting can't wait to play this in the PS5 because the graphics and the gameplay are amazing, soundtrack is a masterpiece, Japanese Voice acting is amazing too! Jin Sakai who is the main protagonist of the game is voiced by Zoro from "One Piece". Don't listen to the people hating on this! Just play the game and maybe you'll be amazed!, and Easy Platinum Trophy too!
Então o jogo possui gráficos lindos, cenários diferentes um dos outros, dificuldade justa Encontrei poucos bugs na minha jogatina Mas sei que eles existem, a história progride BEM, é um jogo relativamente curto acho que pelos pontos de viagem rápida da uma grande encurtada no jogo as missões secundárias são em grande parte repetitivas porém são poucas então meu que agente consegue segurar a barra, gostei bastantes dos coletáveis e dos itens cosméticos ( espadas e Armaduras ) para finalizar a platina vem muito fácil
Ghost of Tsushima es un juego magistral con unos escala visual impresionante, con un sentido de exploración intuitivo, con una historia fascinante y con unos personajes caracterizados por el sentido de nacionalidad japonesa. Si buscan un juego que te deje pegado a la pantalla por muchas horas, Ghost of Tsushima es para ti.

Story is not engaging at all after first 20 minutes. Literally you run around and do same side quests and encounters 100 times over. Stealth gameplay is laughably bad. You get some options to change your outfits, but that’s about it when it comes to something new after a few hours of gameplay. Nothing that says I need to keep playing to see what happens next, bc you know what’s going to happen: You run across bandits or some random person needs your help from the bandits that attacked their town. Total snooze fest after 2-3 hours.
- 2 point for dumb enemy AI - 1 point for the boring quests -1 point for some graphic such as you can walk through the dead body or ride your horse through the bamboo forest ิี But if you love samurai or Japanese atmosphere and very beautiful photo mode as I am you probably love this game
The story is good but predictable. Gameplay - specifically mission design - is pretty simple with most missions including main and side consisting of go here, follow me, track, to this location and kill enemies. Side collectable tasks only feel rewarding on the first island. After that they begin to feel more like a chore to collect. Combat is fun but can be inconsistent. Often had issues with my character not tracking the target as well as refusing to register my parry. Acting is also sometimes inconsistent. On some occasions, cut-scenes would have me tearing up or sympathize with the character(s). Then other times the delivery made a more emotional scene feel emotionless. Still a good game nonetheless.
TLDR: Despite the game being mediocre in some big ways, including in narrow plot and following the typical open world formula, it excels in environmental design and combat design (both in gameplay and animations), so much so that I believe it’s better than than the average open world game that follows the same formula; I might be wrong... oh well WARNING: there are some vague spoilers and a couple of specific spoilers in here, so if you want to go into the game clean, avoid this review! You have been warned! After over 100 hours of playtime, one full play through and part of a second, I think the game is pretty good. Don’t really care for out of ten scores, so I’ll say I thought the game was above average, and back up my belief with my pros and cons of the game: Pros: - Combat: I love the stances and how you need to utilize each of them to overcome each of the types of enemies; also, unlike some games, and especially in lethal mode, the enemies aren’t just damage sponges that take tens of hits to fell, rather their difficulty and survivability comes from their own ability to block/counter your attacks, making it seem like you’re trading blows with a fellow warrior, as apposed to just wailing on a moving training dummy for a while and occasionally evading/blocking when the need arrises (which is something that I was afraid I would never see again after sekiro); also, it is fun to throw in use of the ghost tools, especially if you spec out for tool use in your gear - Environmental design: simply, the game’s world is gorgeous; it doesn’t necessarily have the highest quality design/textures I’ve ever seen, but the different aspects and components all come together so that it looks gorgeous no matter where you look; worth noting are the canopies of the forests, which actually blot out the sky when beneath them, and the grass, which is the most realistic I have personally seen - Combat animations: purely awesome and satisfying, especially with regard to the finishers, which are truly unlike any game I’ve played before; every enemy defeated ends with a stylish finisher/flourish that just looks awesome and makes you feel BA - Horse: some games have mounts/vehicles that are a pain to ride, but the horse in this game seems to me to be very responsive; also, I appreciate that they allow you to choose from a few names for the horse that are voice acted, so that Jin (the main character) refers to the companion by its name throughout the story; some may dislike being unable to personalize the horse’s name, but I actually prefer the way it was done, because I like hearing the horse’s name spoken aloud (I wish they did something similar in rdr2, dang it) - Armor: love the design of most of the sets (not keen on the Sakai set, unfortunately), and I like all of their unique stats; also, I thought it was cool how the armors visually changed as I upgraded them, and I like the ability to dye the armors - Sword: if this was a fantastical game, I would’ve said that I was missing weapon variety, or the ability to imbue the katana with magical effects, or something; however, in this game, I think the simpler approach to upgrading the sword just to improve damage is appropriate; plus, variety in combat more-so comes through the techniques you unlock/acquire; I do like that the weapon cosmetic customization, unlike the armor, is not tied to stats - Minimal hud: while the game still hangs on to the typical open world formula, it at least does so without framing the screen in a distracting hud; while not perfect, I appreciate that the steps the developers took in the right direction by limiting the hud to the divine wind and the golden bird - Duels: the duels, aka boss fights, are awesome, and tend to be the most impactful parts of the stories (main and side) in the game - Legendary quests: also awesome, some of the best parts of the game, in fact, both in story and gameplay - Side quests: generally pretty interesting, albeit a little simple at times - Main quest: the story has a few oddities and shortcomings, but overall, it is pretty good Cons: - Water: the exception to the beautiful environmental design is the water, which is of noticeably lower quality - Choice: I’m not one to argue that every game has to incorporate choices into the story, in fact I believe most types of story would do well without them, but this game would have been much improved with choices that impacted the story, considering the narrative focus on the struggle between [Link omitted per site rules]

After playing The Last of us 2 I had low expectations, and I wasn't wrong... at first, in the beginning I wasn't impressed with the animations the face movements were very stiff and non life like, a big downgrade from the last of us 2, but sucker punch still managed to blow my socks off with beautiful environments with vibrant colors, and foxes. I loved the story too it wasn't the best storyline but I still really liked it, the final dual had be in tears and not wanting to finish. After I had finished I wanted more and I am excited to play again.
Best game i hope they continue and see the part 2 . Thanks to make this game and removing the bad feeling abut last of us 2
I don't even know where to start the game exceeded my expectations by a landslide. The beautiful lush environments, chasing foxes, climbing shrines, liberating camps, writing haikus to cutting through shoots of bamboo. The game has so much more play value than I could have imagined and it's amazing! Honestly since completing 100% of the game I haven't forgotten it and I just can't believe what a masterpiece I played. Definitely the best game I've played so far this year!
THIS GAME IS WITHOUT A DOUBT GAME OF THE YEAR . from the story to the combat to the character development to the graphics .this game is the prettiest game I've ever played . rn ghost of tsushima is my 3rd favourite game ever after rdr2. i highly recommend it .and people says there is no surprise element wich is absolutely wrong i had no idea of some ... well i don't want to spoile .this game is the game of the year no question
Visually just a beautiful game. The scenery and story just flows so well and it draws you into playing longer and longer (I have to watch my sleeping patterns, haha). I'm really impressed with the camera setting (Kurasawa) looks great and a beautiful nod to the director. My only caveat with the game is the camera angle. I would prefer to have it extended, but I understand the limitations in terms of graphic processor. Overall, I think this is 9 out of 10 game. Sucker Punch does really well to possibly leave the game open ended to a sequel or even the possibility of a prequel to detail Jin's story.
Fantastic game and a fantastic closure to a game console generation. Ghost of Tsushima is not without flaws but stands as a reminder that not every new game has to be **** It, mechanically, follows the already proven pattern of some earlier awesome games. Open world, pick up trees and flowers, upgrade gear, get better tools that give access to new areas and stuff, do main or secondary quests. My first impression when booting up was that I where surprised by it´s low quality textures, quite hideous at times. But in my opinion, textures does not have anything to do with how good a game is. Even though some bad textures, the overall environmental fidelity of the graphics are masterpieces. Characters are okay, not a new Bloody Baron or Vaas but they do their part. The main story is quite good, with one or two good twists. Secondary questlines are also okay. The game is also constructed with immersion in mind, the hud only ever shows exactly when needed to, minimaps or markers are not here. Instead you are guided by ingame phenomenons like the wind or animals. Love the focus on immersion. Combat is where the game really shines. I usually don´t think to much about it, I often even find combat a bit boring. But GoS really nails the combat. It is so well balanced and skillfully constructed, it puts a lot of significance on the skill and concentration on the player. A really focused player can defeat several enemies of high lethality, but let your thoughts wander away for half a second and you are gutted. If you love Horizon, Red Dead or Samurais in general you´r gonna love Ghost Of Tsushima!
The game is fantastic and worth the money, why? The game did its homework and envelops you in the world of Japanese culture. The music in the game is fantastic and beautiful the graphics, the setting art, and the motion capture was also amazing. The combat though repetitive and a bit arcady is enjoyable and in pace with the game. People have said the game aims for historically accurate I disagree, its overflowing with modern-day sensibilities and many woke watermarks: lot of "Strong Female Characters". The SFC make up almost half of the main characters, keep in mind the game takes place in feudal Japan a country with an almost fanatical social caste system. Jin the main character is a bit of a mary Sue but his character quickly develops through out the main story. In all, SuckerPunch made a great game and its worth the money. I genuinely look forward to sequels and or DLCs, in short its an imperfect game but fun. PS LoU II blows
I literally could not put this game down. Being Asian, it was so nice to see a Western studio handle the Japanese Culture with so much respect. Not only that, with characters like Yuna and Lady Masako, Sucker Punch really showed that they could write strong female characters without coming across as forced. The scenery was beautiful, the characters showed actual growth, the story made me cry at least 3 times, the gameplay was super fun, and I couldn't get over how well the English voice acting was! I did come across some bugs, like changing between stances sometimes didn't register, Jin would hit the wrong enemy at times, and some of the stealth was a bink wonky at times, but none of this was enough to damper my enjoyment. Well worth the buy! I'm now playing through it again in Kurosawa mode.

The game we needed in a year like this. I was immersed, entertained and satisfied with the gameplay the story and effort put into the presentation. The game we needed but 2020 didn't deserve. Fire!
I like the open world of this game. It's not tedious or too difficult. Stunning visuals. I enjoyed the 1 on duels so much. I also like that we had a choice in the ending
This is Sucker Punch's love letter to Kurosawa. The story hooked me and know I want to know more about this time period in Japn's history. The graphics are jaw dropping. The game play is interesting and makes me complicate my tactics.
Just finished the game and It was an amazing experience. The look of the game took me in from the start and the gameplay and story made me stay. The only thing keeping me from giving it a 10/10 is the combat fell off in terms of fun factor towards the end of the game. Other than that it is an amazing experience and I would recommend playing at least once.

Fantastic game. Graphics 10/10 Gameplay 10/10 Combat 10/10 Story 9/10 Loading times 9999/10 I’ve never wanted to do so many side quests in a game, the game just flows like water.
A very good looking and polished game. honestly this is the best looking game I've ever played and it has the best in game photo mode to compliment that. The story isn't perfect, but a young samurai's struggle between keeping his code of honor and doing whatever is needed to save his people gets pretty enticing after the first act. The combat is confusing at first but the game does a good job of really making sure you learn it and once you do its really fun. My only complaints are that there are a few minor scenery oversights where you can see through the bottom of a boulder at a certain angle, and the depiction of Tomoe in one of the main side tales changes so radically at the end without enough evidence to make it believable. If I could I'd give this game a 9.4-9.5 out of 10
Ghost of the tsushima é uma obra prima,o jogo que traz o equilibrio perfeito entre gameplay e atividades no mundo aberto ,cada pedaço do mapa é lindo de se explorar,uma historia simplesmente fantastica ,e a melhor ip lançamento da geraçao

The samurai game I have been waiting for has finally arrived with Ghost of Tsushima. I had so much enjoyment playing this game, from the combat to story quests and customization to the colors & sounds of the open world — this game captures the wandering samurai inspired by samurai films perfectly. There’s a nostalgic feel to this game that works but also hinders itself in some areas. Heavily influenced by open world assassin creed type games the open world encounters do lose its magic after some time. The story although not captivating as a whole — you end up falling in love with the characters and the story of the ghost by the end of the game. This game very much hangs it’s hat on being a “game” first and for most meaning that it’s forgiving nature makes it’s accessible but also means it’s not a trying to expand the medium, which makes for a less lived in — cinematic game, even though the game as a whole is a love letter to those cinematic samurai moments, it is still a fun video game. I believe the game as a whole is an 85 but playing it in Japanese made the experience so much more authentic boosting it to an 88 for me. If you love assassin creed games or the samurai genre it’s a must play! Definitely a solid first entry as a new IP from SP and can’t wait to see how they refine and make this game better in the future.

Um mundo aberto rico em detalhes, onde a exploração realmente vale a pena. Cada missão secundaria tem uma história legal e encantadora. É o jogo que melhor fez missões secundárias após The Witcher 3. Só não é 10 porque tem alguns problemas relacionados a bugs e um melhor polimento. Nota 9
Probably the most beautiful game released this generation. Extremely addictive gameplay and some of most immersive gaming Ive ever experienced. It has flaws but it does so much right that I cant help but recommend it. I should note that I have greatly enjoyed every Sucker Punch game released since 2009. Such a great company.
Ghost of Tsushima is an open world game done right. Art style, characters, and setting are all a perfect fit for anyone that loves open world, and story driven games I found myself finishing the games main story, side quest, and exploration goals at about 60 to 70 hours, and i honestly enjoyed every minute of gameplay. The combat is fun and easy to learn and the enemys can be brutal and harsh to fight in a group. The enemy AI sometimes messes up having an enemy kind of stand in a tent doorway and lose you from 2 feet away making for easy kills, also the stance system sometimes would not register what stance i chose making me attack a shield user whith a spear attack stance. The story was amazing playing as a honorable samurai who fights for his code and homeland or playing as the stealthy ghost who fights with deadly poisons and assassins tacticsto save his people. The way you play is up to you but you are forced to be the ghost at the end of your journey when the main character realizes that the way to fight an enemy can not always be with honor and sometimes you have to fight dirty branding the ghost a traitor of japan and eventually leading to his clans disbanding, and a duel with your uncle where you can choose to kill or spare him. Edaysther way the ghost will be hunted until the end of his days. Overall the game is an amazing accomplishment and deserves high praise which is why i rate it 9/10. If it were not for my stance choices not registering, and AI not getting stuck sometimes i would have rated 10/10
Es un juego enorme en todo sentido una travesia que como toda aventura tiene sus pros y sus contras en este caso, el juego rapidamente se torna repetitivo dependiendo de tu tiempo de juego en el aspecto tecnico, graficamente es una brutalidad a nivel de **** iluminacion etc. y en la categoria de sonido no destaca realmnete, y para mi lo mas importante en un videojuego que es su ambientacion y el como te puede llegar a sumergir esta misma, en este caso es bastante buena pero no me a logrado sumergir del todo pero clraro que lo logro y por ultimo la historia. De esta esperaba muchoo mas pero no es la gran cosa tenia un potencial increible pero la forma en la que se desarrola y el como es contada se siente sosa y en ocaciones vas a preferir explorar el enorme mundo que esta a nuesta disposicion que el seguir la trama.

The most beautiful game I've played in a while, together with Dishonored and Assassin's Creed 2, the fun I experienced was immeasurable, besides the gameplay being fun and fluid, the story was beautiful (some parts were a little predictable, but well executed none the less), and, while the sidequests were a little repetitive, they became quite interesting because of how well the story progressed on them, overall, a must-play game.
Ghost Of Tsushima is one of the best games out right now the visuals are incredible, story is well written, and memorable characters. Open World has a variety of options from doing side mission to retaking a farmstead from Mongols, composing haiku's. The combat is great but the camera can be really finicky at times. All I can say right now is buy this game this game is worth every single cent.


A beautiful world! Great story! Interesting characters! Playing this game was an amazing experience, feels like I am linked with the characters in this old fashion Japanese samurai world. I enjoyed every second playing this game! This game is near perfect, 10 points with no doubt, I wish I can give you more. Thank you Sucker Punch for this masterpiece! And In your face TLOU2!
Thank you SuckerPunch, to start this review i have to say that i did unlock the Platinum in this game so you know i played it to completion. This game was absolutely amazing, the gameplay is perfect, the swordplay is incredible and the game itself is in my opinion, the most beautiful game that i have played, the colors in some areas are just insane, you could literally just walk around (i did) looking at the incredible sights, the falling leaves, the huge terrains with flowers, the shinto shrines, everything is so beautiful and perfect, but at the same time can be dark and depressing depending on the mission which is good. The story is very good too, i enjoyed it a lot, it really does make you feel like a samurai and also as the ghost, the story can play with your feelings as you progress it and transform, you can feel the character and his struggle which is just amazing, very very good story. (please release some DLC or a sequel, a sequel would be amazing) The music is just incredible, its not boring or playing 24/7 which in this game, is good, being able to explore the island of tsushima while listening to nature sounds is a joy, however that doesn't mean that the times where music does play are bad, its absolutely fantastic, the duels are some of my favorite part of the game, and the music that plays whenever you go face to face against an opponent its just perfect. I played the game with the japanese voice track, in my opinion, its really good, it is a shame that the lip sync is only for the english voice track, however for me, it wasn't distracting or bad that i wasn't synced with the japanese voices, what i did find kind of annoying but very minor in reality is the subtitles, i do know a little bit of japanese and knew what they where saying, sometimes the subtitles are off, to give you an example: a character may say: “ ありがとうございます” “arigatou gozaimasu” which would mean thank you in a formal way, sometimes the subtitles were correct with this but sometimes it was completely off, sometimes the subs said “Thank you very much” which could be correct or “Thank you, Lord Sakai” which is off, as its adding words, sometimes the subs would even say something like “My life is saved because of you” which would be incorrect but im assuming that the subs are just ported from the english voice track so it causes errors on the translation, again this is not really a big deal, but it can get annoying sometimes, very minor. Other than that, i didn't experience any issues or bugs while playing, which was fantastic. I give it a 10/10, amazing, again, thank you sucker punch and sony for making this game possible, please keep making games like this one!.
Best way to bid farewell to PS4. Sucker Punch has knocked it out of the kingdom with this game. The gameplay mechanics, story, and my god the graphics were absolutely top notch. It is and open world game with not only one of the best stories out there but also all the side tales (side missions) were super engaging and fun. From the time I booted this game I was awestruck on how Sucker Punch was able to create such mind-blowing graphics on a 2013 hardware. I cannot see a better game to bid 8th generation with such a beautiful goodbye.
I am 30 years old man and i got two sick days from work to platinum this game. Fastest platinum i got because i could not stop playing it. We need harder difficulty than "Lethal" and new game+ as soon as possible.
Amazing game.The mechanics are beautiful.My favourite parts are the gust of wind that guides you through the world and how the weather changes based on your playstile.I would have given it a 10,but the camera is a huge turnoff.You can't kill an enemy you don't see.
I will admit this is my first review, but the main reason is because “Ghost of Tsushima” was that good to me. I completed the game, both endings, 100% and I would do it all over again. Not only was this game amazing to look at, the story and side quests were super enjoyable. I enjoyed the little bugs and glitches the game had to offer and honestly every game has their neat features. Although at times the immersion will be broken because of nitpicking things I was hooked along the whole ride of the game. Also, for those people who have a hard time to shed a tear trust me I’m with you, and this game was able to make me cry thanks to the pacing, layout, and impacting story. Hope you enjoy the game as much as I have. A must play experience!

I think this game deserve more than 8, when you have great graphics, Music, gameplay, love of all characters, nice side missions, and list go on... what do you call this game is? The game that everyone must play and finish every trophy. I watched all gamers reaction once I finished the game and in every moment we all share the same reaction which joy of the intro, feeling emotional about the story, clapping your hands and raising your hat for the developers and every member who participated to give us this masterpiece. Well done sucker punch and thank you for producing such a great experience.
Phenomenal story about honor and sacrifice. Combat mechanics could have used a little more time in the oven but that is the only thing holding the game back from a 10 in my opinion thanks to the great visuals, story and the overall love and care that was put into its production.


Let me preface this review by saying that I don't normally like "open-world" games. I made an exception for Ghost of Tsushima for three reasons: 1) The 13th century setting: this is not a period of history that gets much attention, with most Japanese-inspired games/novels/films set in the much later Sengoku period, and "Samurai vs Mongols" sounded intriguing. 2) The 18 minute gameplay demo released earlier in the year 3) The general hype in various game groups I'm in. As you can tell by my score, I'm very happy I took the risk. So much has already been written about this games visuals, but it bears repeating: Tsushima is gorgeous. The colour palette is insane, and you can see why the Tsushima tourist board has recently partnered with Sucker Punch. This game is a love letter to the Japanese rural idyll: cherry blossoms blow over lakes, windswept beaches glow in the light of the setting sun, temples and shrines line the horizon in spell-binding vistas. The criticism I often have of open world games is that the worlds become bland after too much exploring, or that tasks seem repetitive, but that just doesn't apply here. I was happy to just wake up in the morning, switch the PS4 on, set Sora (my horse) to a slow canter and just observe Tsushima while drinking my coffee. The design team had clearly observed the environment they were trying to replicate deeply and created astonishing biomes, not in an overly photo-realistic way but in a manner which captures the essence of nature. The funny thing is, I went for a walk IRL the other day and found myself looking more appreciatively at birds, the wind in trees etc because of this game. SP could have charged me £50 for a haiku / horse simulator and I would have considered it money well spend, but they also managed to create an astonishingly good samurai combat game and revenge / honour story on the top. Once you get through a slightly-too-long intro and level the skill tree up a bit (about 2-3 hours work), the melee combat system is among the best I've ever played. Picture the frenzied fun of early beat-em-ups, the deflecting of Sekiro and the stance changes from Nioh all in one fluid package. There is nothing quite like the adrenaline rush of challenging four enemies to a "Standoff", taking them out, then dropping a smoke bomb, assassinating four more enemies in the resultant fog and then going batsh!t in Ghost mode (late game only) to take the rest out - all to the pumping sound track of battle drums and (sometimes) Mongol throat singing (I really want to read more about how they composed the music to this game - the use of a Biwa (an almost forgotten stringed instrument) during the mythic quests and on discovering certain locations was inspired). The story beats are on point: what starts off appearing to be a fairly simple, serious story of revenge blossoms into an interesting meditation on how far you are willing to go to protect your home and people. Jin is a likeable protagonist, but I also found many of the characters explored in side missions to have interesting arcs, in particular uncle Lord Shirmura and the thief Yuna, who embody the "honour-above-all" vs "whatever-it-takes-to-protect-those-I-love" paradigms respectively. Is the game perfect? No (no game is). The lack of lip syncing on the Japanese dub was an oversight (although I still played in Japanese for fuller immersion), there were a few glitches here and there, and as previously mentioned the game takes a little too long to properly find its stride (although it sticks the landing, an then some). But the fact is I found none of these to affect my enjoyment in the slightest and are likely patchable anyway, so I'm not going to lower my score on their behalf. Overall this was a perfect game for these crazy times, allowing me to explore a pristine world tainted by violence, to demonstrate video games as an artform and story telling medium whilst also providing adrenaline pumping combat. Superb.

Surely the best game of 2020. In the beginning it seems that you're just going to play another Assassin's Creed (located in Japan). As the story develops you notice that you were completly wrong.
One of the most SPECTACULAR video games i have ever played !! Literally no words for the world building !! I cannot find a bad thing to say in general !! The amazing graphics, gameplay and thrilling story are creating a compelling experience that cannot be missed !! A MUST play for sure !!
The story and fighting is superb and I’m really enjoyed it a lot. One big issue for me is the Ubisoft type filler they have scattered all over. I just found it a big chore and so boring to do. I don’t know if it’s bc I’ve played all the assassin creeds, far cry’s and watchdogs and I’m just getting so bored of it. If you like the Ubisoft formula but done by a different developer with amazing combat and a compelling story, than this is the game for you.

Un excelente juego, la escenografía, el diseño del mundo y sus personajes entrañables lo hacen un clásico contemporáneo. En donde la experiencia de Sucker punch se ve reflejada, como el mejor trabajo que han hecho hasta ahora. Más de 100 horas jugadas, muchos duelos y mongoles asesinados por el fantasma. Muy recomendable.

Игра середняк, не уровень эксклюзива Sony. Устаревшая во всех смыслах. Графика, геймплей, а сюжет - это клишированная история о самураях.

Ugh.....this Game... I like Shadow's... but I'm having some real problems with it... Until you unlock all the stances the swordplay is hard. Once you do that, it gets a lot more fun. Yahtzee said it best. It's almost like they should've been all unlocked from the start but open world games got to do the unlocking. There's also this character dissidence here. They give you the tools to be all sneaky stabby and yet go out of your way to shame you for doing so. So I made the decision to not do the secret stabbing thing unless it was to save lives in game... A samurai that bend his code of honor for the people he's supposed to protect. When it's his life alone he fights out in the open. Except for Archer, **** them. Then I get to save my uncle and there's a guy on the other side of the door. I can do nothing... nothing but sneak kill him.... Nothing else. Can't stand up, can't take out my sword... can't do anything else... Lets go kill the guy so my uncle can be like oh what have you done... you stabbed someone in the back... oh no.... Hmpf and they say linear games are bad because you get railroaded in them. Never have I felt so suddenly sucked out of the experience before. It was trailing along but that one moment really took the wind out of my sails to be honest. Now I'm just going to play through it the rest of the way
Graphics are great. Story is great. The combat Is where it falls hard. The combat is nothing new and at times It feels so clunky you would think your playing GTA V. The stealth is also terrible.
Amazing graphics and sound. Combat mechanics are good, but ruined by one of the worst cameras I've ever seen. The bad camera forced me to avoid fighting and do stealth kills instead. The AI is really dumb which makes the game pretty easy, even on Lethal difficulty. The open world gameplay got pretty redundant. Quest are the usual go to X, look for some markers, and eventually fight someone. The story was meh...

We usually get games like this once or twice a generation... after the witcher 3 and red dead redemption 2 this is more than a nice surprise its the third gem this generation was gifted.
Best game ever. The Gameplay and everything else is awesome. Never was there a game that captured me like that. Those critics dont have a clue.
Лучший сюжет что я видел за последнее время! Да возможно местами она банален, но он что называется цепляет.. игровые механики тоже иниересны, есть конечно повторяющиеся квесты, типа освобождения деревень, но без этого мало кто обходится в последнне время. В общем лучшее из того сто я играл за последний год, пожалуй.
Muy buen juego,súper recomendable.los jefes son complicado y el ambiente del juego es muy realista y bien hecho y la historia es muy buena una obra de arte de juego.

Pontos positivos: História, jogabilidade, trilha sonora e os gráficos no geral são bonitos, principalmente do cenário. Pontos negativos: Câmera as vezes pode ser meio confusa nas batalhas, faltou uma trava de mira.
Поиграл часов 7, пока все очень нравится. Графика, геймплей, очень круто.

i was waiting for a samurai game like this.The graphics are beautiful, level Design is amazing and combat is deep and rewarding when mastered. Story is also very good, Awesome game.
Ghost of Tsushima (PS4) (+) Beautifully designed world (+) Impressive graphics for the PS4 (+) Best photo mode in any game to date (+) Very satisfying and enjoyable combat (-) Similar game design implemented since 2002 in open world games (-) Terrible lip sync (-) Story mission linearity doesn't justify the open world (-) Act III lacks new content and charm when compared to the first two (3/5) - Above Average - Recommended at $39.99

This isn’t a review bomb, I haven’t played TLOU Part II All I can say is that I thoroughly enjoyed this game! I have 4 Platinum trophies because typically I don’t care enough about earning trophies but, I loved this game so much that I just had to earn the Platinum! Don’t let our hobby become tainted by political agendas! I won’t rate TLOU until such a time that I play it (If ever I do) but in my opinion, this game is essential to anyone’s collection!

Best game for PS4. Tight controlles, varied game play with unique mechanics. Beautiful world. Hard difficulty is fun, won't die to much, but have to stay focused and constant move. Great story; very unique plot, characters are well developed with complex motivations. Honors the history of the attacks under which times had to put their diffences behind and come together to face a greater threat. Going to play 100% halfway through rn. Its going to be awesome.
Top Sandbox Game. Story ist gut und wird durch die Nebenstorys sogar noch rund um Tsushima ausgebaut. Grafik bis auf wenige Ausnahmen sehr gut. Nur bei den Lichteffekten haben es die Entwickler etwas übertrieben. Und beim Kampfsystem ist die Kamera etwas suboptimal.
What a Masterpiece! Solid 10. It may be unpolished at some level but what a unique experience. This is not only the samurai experience I have been waiting for, its so much more. I loved the Jin Tale and the execution at every level. Man what a blast!
Great game. The gameplay and story draws you in . Its one of those games you don't want to stop playing snd when you do you find your self wanting more


Can’t really say much, Probably one of the greatest things I have ever played. For an open world I did not run into a single glitch or bug. Sucker Punch, this one is one for the ages.

Um jogo muito bem feito, excelentes graficos e jogabilidade. HIstoria muito bem feita e um mundo aberto imenso e missoes secundarias que valem a pena. Divertido e viciante de jogar, vale muito a pena jogar nota 10!
This game was totally amazing, just finished Platinum and wanted more. The history is getting more interesting in the middle/final game, but was keep me always come back to play was the amazing side quests, world exploration and combat! Combat was the perfect challenge for me, really worth it each cent.

The graphic is beautiful, no other game is beautiful like this game. The game play is brilliant and satisfying. The photo mode is incredible, this is another level of photo mode. It has set the precedent for other game to follow it photo mode.

I love this game!!! This game is the first game I've ever completed 100% and got platinum for ever! I'm almost 40yrs old and this is the second game that I've ever played through again shortly afterwards(first one was rdr2).
Un imprescindible del catálogo de PS4. Gráficos espectaculares, historia muy interesante, sonido soberbio y una jugabilidad muy adictiva. Los combates son muy épicos y da la posibilidad de ser fiel al código samurai o bien ser un cruel asesino en las sombras. Todo un acierto. El sistema de progresión y habilidades es de lo más gratificante. No os perdáis uno de los grandes videojuegos del año. Digno contendiente a GOTY
Ghost of tsushima, it was one of the most beautiful games I played in this generation every part of the island is a photo stop, an ambitious game on the part of the sucker punch, the lack of HUD in the game makes you totally immersed in the game. Of course, the sucker punch has to improve storytelling and character animation, but it's remarkable how they grew up since infamous 2. I saw people complaining about how this game gets high marks and TLOU2 not with all the review bomb, this game is for fun, spending time marveling at the landscape that the game already offers TLOU 2 is on the contrary it is something to impact with the perfect storytelling of naughty dog and its attention to details is a game that makes you sick from beginning to end in short ghost of tsushima is one of the most artistically beautiful games on the playstation 4 and closed the sony console generation with a flourish. And give the sucker punch a chance they have a lot to improve but from what I saw and played they have a lot of potential to reach the technical level of naughty dog.
Great side quests that keep giving and giving, My favorite was Tomoe's storyline betraying her Sensei. Lady Masako's storyline was excellent as well. The visual were absolutely incredible for a open world game. The combat is very good as well. I'm collecting items to finish this 100% for my Platinum trophy,. Thank you Sucker Punch for this amazing experience, this was well worth the wait.
Spent about 50/60 hours in this game and it's one of the best games I've played. The side quests are just as meaningful and filled with depth of story as the main story. All the trophies are collectable and the best thing about this game is the visuals. Also loading screens for fast travelling are 2 seconds.

An astoundingly looking game with great gameplay mechanics and a pretty good story of self-reflection of the main character. The combat system is quite demanding at a higher difficulty especially on Lethal. One of the best open-world games to date.


After finding out that about half of the professional reviews on Metacritic have given the game a 90+ I decided to give it a chance. I wasn't disappointed; the open world was lovely and felt alive (a character in its own right), combat was challenging, the relationship between Jin and his uncle was believable, interesting supporting characters (Masako's arc was the most interesting to me). Side quests were as I kind of expected them to be but at least they're "baked in" to the world and don't feel as "video gamey" as some other games I've played like FFVII Remake. The game is excellent overall.

Why do people who gave this negative reviews think "liking GoT = hating TLOU2"? Most of the negative reviews I've seen are written by people who probably don't even own the game and are here only to complain about this game getting a higher score than TLOU2. I like both games and you too don't necessarily need to hate one of those games to like the other one. You guys are no different than VSCO girls on facebook who say sh*t like "if you are not with me you are against me" or people who review bombed TLOU2 just because it included minorities. Game is great in every way possible. Unless they are complaining about gameplay/story/graphics of the game, don't even bother reading the negative reviews.

Looks amazing with incredible art along with great sound design. Also plays really well with fun combat and nice little ideas with regards to exploration. Ultimately still openworld 101 though, with little innovation when it comes to it’s structure and story telling, and because of that I find it repetitive and I get bored after a couple of hours.
All I have to say is, thank you, Sucker Punch. What an experience this game was. It combined elements from the usual "open world" dynamic with some perfectly new and unique features that I predict we will start to see a lot more as the next generation rolls in. A few things to note about this masterpiece: Graphics: 9.5/10 I cannot stress how much this pains me that it's not a 10/10, but I have to be fair. The graphics are great, but I've noticed a couple clipping issues with certain outfits. Nothing huge, but enough to notice. Other than that, this game is stunningly beautiful from start to finish. You will end up with several background-worthy screenshots by the time you reach 100%, guaranteed. Narrative 10/10 The main storyline is well thought out and creatively woven into Japanese history (much of which I was learning for the first time). The supporting characters get fleshed out beautifully and you end up with some very touching moments along the way. Protagonist: 10/10 By the end, Jin Sakai will be one of your favorite video game characters without a doubt. For me, he's right up there with the Arthur Morgan's, Joel Miller's, and Peter Parker's of the video game world. Characters/Interactions: 10/10 Like i mentioned above, this game is sprinkled with interesting characters throughout each Act. Usually, I hate open world side quests where it's just a cheesy talking-head-style conversation like "Help! I can't find my brother!", "Okay, I will help!" And I understand that this is just the nature of a lot of games, but I think GoT does a few small things that enhance these moments so they carry a little more weight, i.e. cut scene camera angles, multi-step side quests. Villain: 10/10 Khotun Khan provides some of the game's best moments and 100% deserves to be mentioned in this review. The way that he is also fictionally woven into Japanese history is creative and effective. Well done, Sucker Punch! Cutscenes/Editing 10/10 There's A LOT to mention here. Right out of the gate, you are blessed with an intro that is sure to give you goosebumps. Throughout, there's a couple battle scenes that give "Battle of the Bastards" a run for it's money (shout out the other GoT! Except S8). The atmosphere of the game really captures you at the most random moments, for example, the short cut scene and score before you begin a duel *chefs kiss*. I'm leaving out a lot of stuff here, but I'll let you experience these things for yourself! Gameplay 10/10 The combat in this game is so satisfying. I'd put it right up there with God of War and Jedi Fallen Order, which IMO have some of the most fun combat in recent years. I love the fact that you have multiple options when approaching a fight. Most of the time, I took the aggressive approach and then adjusted if I found something else to be more effective. Also, the animations during combat are so f****** cool! There are a lot of little things that this game does well to enhance your experience too. Things like no HUD, petting foxes, impressive platforming dynamic, playing the flute, the haiku feature, etc. I could go on and on! Overall I'll give this game a 9.5/10 with my only (VERY minor) gripe being about the graphics and the clipping issue that I kept noticing. This PS generation is definitely going out with a bang with this one, and you will not want to miss it.
A great adventure, imbued with the atmosphere and culture of middle-century Japan. A fascinating exciting action game that does not let you relax. Cool music and soundtracks. Let the game technically does not show a high level, but the work of the artists is simply phenomenal. The game intoxicates you with its visual. Incredible landscapes, a lot of small particles on the screen. Super. The only thing that was a little confusing was the Japanese pathos, which sometimes makes it boring to play (but I understand that this is a genre Convention). The game is great, the PS4 completes its cycle with dignity.
I loved this game so much that it even made me create an user to leave my review of the game here. From the perfect blend of natural exploration, to how the open world guides you without even have to use waypoints, to the combat and animations. I find it hard to give this game any score that is not a 10. Even after getting the platinum, i decided to find all of the collectibles even if I already had done everything needed to get the platinum, this game is that good. I really hope that it can win GOTY 2020, but in the case that it doesn't win. That will not change the fact that this is the best game SuckerPunch has created and my personal GOTY 2020.

Esperei terminar o jogo e platiná-lo pra expor minha nota. Não é comum ver jogos tão belos como este. As paisagens são maravilhosas. A jogabilidade é muito boa, o combate é fantástico. Não dei uma 10 porque a procura pela platina de fato é meio chata, com muitas missões repetidas.

Eu nunca me senti tão satisfeito com uma gameplay de mundo aberto. O combate é maravilhoso e não se torna repetitivo. O jogo tem uma ótima árvore de habilidades.
This game only having an 83 on Metacritic is absolutely criminal. What an astonishing game. The gameplay is so addicting and satisfying and the graphics are stunning and glorious. Looks like an epic painting at times. Stand offs are brilliant and will NEVER get old, the game has deeper mechanics than I ever would’ve imagined, and “boss fight” duels are glorious and intense. Game of the Year.
What can I say. Best game I've played this year. Graphics are fantastic, combat is fun, story is interesting. I'm having so much fun with it I'm on my second play through . Must Buy!
One of the best games I've ever played and I've played a lot of them. It sets a new standard as an open world game with the quality and level of attention of a linear game.
a beautiful adventure in to the picturesque world of feudal japan. The controls are intuitive on the whole and challenging enough to keep you interested for the duration. The game does suffer as many open world games do, go here, kill group of enemies, return. The combat itself is mediocre, choose the right attack depending on the enemy and off you go. Similarly, the open world doesn't really have a great deal for you to do. Ot looks beautiful but it becomes samy pretty quickly and fast travel becomes a more tempting choice. The story is engaging and well acted. The characters are bjust larger than life enough to be believable and at the same time, that little bit more than we can really believe. Japan itself looked a little flat to me, too clean and too comic book. For the die hard samurai fans, there are many problems with the representation, but for those wanting an epic adventure in the world of samurai then you will not be disappointed with this
9.5/10 Absolutely stunning. Some aspects were a little repetitive, but overall that is an extremely minor nitpick. Outstanding. Best game I’ve played so far this year.

An engaging story yes, but the strong point for me is the very satisfying gameplay. Some missions are a bit repetitive, but generally there's a balance of things to see here. A beautiful world to explore and a fun game to play.
A game that comes once in a lifetime. With an open world set up where you can be a tourist through time machine way back 1274 at the same time. I had an awesome experience with this game. And the graphics was too overwhelmingly great! The Game play, story line and the combat was smooth. I'd say it's a must try samurai game!!!

When I first booted up this samurai epic revenge flick ( I'm starting to see a trend here Sony with your single player revenge tales ). I forgot to turn up my volume and thought the main character " Jin " said the samurai force were facing off against a mongoose invasion luckily after putting in a good 22 hours I can honestly say, I'm convinced the Foxes are in cahoots with the Mongols
Honestly one of the best games I've ever played. It plays like assassin's creed but better. If there is an assassins creed based in Japan I'm not gonna buy it cause it will feel like a poorly made rip off of this game. There is so much depth and detail and passion put into this game like it honestly is a very very very top tier game. A++ from.me
Took me 55 hours to platinum the game over the span of 6 days, now I'm roaming the island for places to take screenshot in photo mode. This game looks so good and the combat feels so beautifully balanced I completely lost myself in it. And I don't know what black magic Sucker punch pulled off but the loading screens are the shortest I have ever seen in any AAA game
Игра хороша геймплеем,саундтреками,концовка мощная,если вам нравятся соул-лайк игры играйте на харде,а не на "кошмаре" это сложнее чем секиро. Трава отличная, лисы - милые,графика отличная, но не лучше TLoU 2. Берите,если прошли TLoU 2

Tinha tudo pra ser um dos melhores da geração porém a pressa em lançar ainda nessa geração acabou diminuindo a qualidade do game. Porém o jogo é extremamente divertido, o combate é bom, o furtivo nem tanto, os inimigos tem visão além do alcance. A história é boa porém curta, faltou criatividade e tempo para adicionarem mais conteúdo para enriquecer a história. O gráfico claramente não foi totalmente aperfeiçoado, em determinados locais é simplesmente maravilhoso, cores vivas e iluminação linda porém tem locais onde o ambiente é pálido e sem vida. A água é uma das piores coisas que eu já presenciei em um game, completamente morta e escura, quando Jin anda sobre poças ou nada você não sente que ele tem contato com a água pois não existe física entre eles. Em relação a bugs presenciei alguns porém nada que prejudicasse o gameplay, no geral é um bom game mas que poderia ser infinitamente melhor se não fosse a pressa da Sony em lançar o game ainda nessa geração.
This has to be the best PlayStation game since the ps2 games . When the ps3 and ps4 game came most of the game was good but i bleary replay them . This one has something that i can replay it and not get bored from it .
Game nya masterpiece!, Ending nya pas Jin mau ngelawan Lord Shimura juga berhasil ngebuat saya nangis, suka banget sama grafik nya, karakter nya, landspace nya indah, story nya bagus menurut saya, dan musik nya bagus banget, mantep lah
Finally finished this gem. This game takes a known open world formula and makes it fresh again. The story is great. It resembles assassin's Creed in some ways but it executes at such a high level that comparing it to ac should be an insult. This is a game of the year contender for sure.
Wow!!! Wow!!! Wow!!! I just finished this masterpiece and Sucker Punch is up there with Rockstar, NaughtyDog and the rest of the AAA developers. Bravo for giving me a gaming experience I have been waiting years to have. Untouchable and this game will stand on its own as being the best Samurai game ever made.
Game of the year!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! Best combat and story and best looking game
Samurai! Its a very enjoyable game with good combat system. People actually die as they should in this game. We should see more of this kind of combat gameplay!

Like TLOU Part II, This is game is mature exploration into hate, revenge and conflict between tradition and honour in changing times. It feels like a storydriven linear game, even when you have spent hours skipping main quest and exploring the island on Tsushima, because the writing and stories are so good. Another Sony win for this Summer. A masterpiece and a great experience.Highly recommended
I was both and raised in Tokyo, I'm a native Japanese. My knowledge of Japanese history, culture and around Samurai are poor, but I have PhD in medicine instead. In my eyes, this game have no feeling of strangeness at all. Not only that, this game reminded me deep Japanese culture I forgot, and touched my heart strongly. I greatly appreciate staff of Sucker Punch Productions. I highly respect theire effort.
Oyun tamamen güzel olmuş, küçük hataları olmasına rağmen oyunun güzelliği bunları örtmüş. Zengin dövüş teknikleri ve bol görevleri ile oyuna kendinizi kaptırabilirsiniz! TLOU2 karşısında GOTY alabilir mi emin değilim ama kesinlikle GOTY hak eden bir oyun!
That the other swan song titles will have better scores is painful given that people just look at the green number and go with that as their research. Meaning, people will think TLOU is 10 points higher than this and that's simply not the truth of it. Tsushima's not perfect but it's the closest thing you'll find to it this year on the PS4. Some gameplay aspects irked me (finding stuff, following tracks, etc) and that's basically it for my negatives. I watched Seven Samurai again because of the hype this game had me feeling the whole time. It's a Sucker Punch game, through and through - if you liked inFamous: Festival of Blood and bought a Sly Cooper beanie once, you'll know if you already like Ghost of Tsushima so I'm biased in that I've always enjoyed all the good stuff these guys make. Watch a letsplay from Act I and if it looks cool to you, just straight up buy it.
Ghost is hands down one of the best games I've ever played, it's a top 5 PS4 game any day. It's simply a work of art, an absolutely gorgeous game. Tight controls, fast hack n' slash samurai gameplay, mind blowing graphics, great characters and voice acting, a great storyline, and loads of stuff to do both in the main story and side missions. Sucker Punch hit a grand slam with this game, 10/10!
Amazing game with a great story and visuals. The only things keeping below 10 is the camera and the AI, the camera feels like another enemy in the game, while the AI can be the dumbest (even on lethal difficulty), I could assassinate someone and the NPC that is right next to him wouldn't even notice. Overall the best game I've played this year.


Amazing visuals, repetitive missions, overpower chatacter and an easy game even on highest difficulty. Good gameplay but poor or misshandled story. Overall, a good game but not worthy to be considered among the greatest
Я поставил игре 5 балов потому, что это просто средняя игра без чего-либо нового или выдающегося. Поэтому я рассмотрю только недостатки. Плюсы можете посмотреть у продажных блогеров. Игра очень скучная и монотонная. У вас есть основной квест. И он не как не зависит от стиля вашей игры. Разработчики построили простую сюжетную, линейную игру. К примеру, вы можете быть самураем, у которого честь при выше всего. Но сюжет вертел этот ваш отыгрыш и желания. Всю будет точно по сценарию. Или, например вы будете играть за скрытого шиноби. И сражаясь из тени. Это не как не повлияет на сюжет. Ну разве что вы увидите пару воспоминаний. И в 2020 этот подход выглядит очень тупо и скучно. Но это не худшее. Проблемы есть и в кветсах. Все, начиная от побочных заканчивая сюжетными сводиться к убийству монгол. И от этого начинает тошнить уже к середине игры. Они сделаны на столько монотонно и однообразно. Что под час вы просто стараетесь их избежать что бы не затягивать игру. Вы скажете, но квесты то хоть интересные? Нет. Они еще хуже. Они линейны и могут проходиться почти в любом порядке. Из-за этого рушится восприятие. Например, средний квест состоит из 9 миссий. В первой части карты 4 и во второй 3, и 2 в третьей части карты. Допустим в первой вы все проигнорировали начали выполнять во второй карет. И там выполнили все квесты потом вернулись в первую карту и начали с начала выполнять с 1 по 4. И в четвертом задание вы получаете координаты 5 который вы уже выполнили. Бредово звучит да? Но это так. В игре даже открытый мир тупо сделан. Вы можете найти сюжетную крепость, при приближении к которой вас тут же будут убивать 7-8 стрел из неоткуда. То есть, по сути, исследовать лучше уже когда все сюжетные квесты закончены. Тогда у вас не будет возникать вопросы почему из неоткуда в вас летят стрелы. Так же в игре нельзя пропустить не одной сцены. Вы зачистили лагерь монголов. Их тут много. Вам показывают один из трех роликов: «главный герой спит рядом с лошадью, стоит и смотрит на поселение или выжженый монгольский лагерь, показывают природу в конце вас». Это длится где-то минуту. Пропустить нельзя. Вот вам это будет нравиться, когда вы это увидите в 30 раз? И мне нет. А просто надпись что вы подняли уровень у святилища в 10 раз? В одной пробочке вам надо победить 4 абсолютно одинаковых генерала, при этом перед победой вы должны сжечь 4 лагеря. Перед тем как их сжечь их надо зачистить. Причем все это будет проходить по одному сценарию. Который повторялся уже 30 раз до этого. Если вы, конечно, внимательно играете. К сожалению метакритик имеет ограничения и не дает больше расписать про игру.
Just finished the game, beautiful story, loved the scenery's especially during one on one fights. I think it had the most beautiful backdrops of any game. So much so that I enjoyed the haikus bc of the scenery. That said, alot of repetitive tasks with little reward. I also would've liked all of the one on one fights to be as parry reliant as the the final one.
An absolute blast to play. Suckerpunch has really nailed the learning curve for combat. The story is excellent and the atmosphere created is superb. You can tell alot of love has gone into creating this game.
This and the Witcher 3 are my top games for this generation. The story is fantastic, but it's the combat that sets itself apart. Easily the best sword/fighting mechanics ever in a game. With just the right amount of abilities that it never once gets remotely boring. This was a game made for fans of true video games! It's fun, has a great story and fantastic characters and doesn't try to subvert your expectations with terrible writing. (Looking at you last of us 2)

I played this game with Japanese dub and English sub. And just wow. The acting, characters, side quests, exploration, cinematic, story, gameplay. It is all beautifully executed and the game deserve all the praise it gets. I will however give this game a 9/10 since throughout the game I could still see improvements to be made. Better reviewers can specifically points this out better than myself. But apart from that, this truly is a wonderful game. I love it.
This is the best game I’ve ever played. I have never gotten so emotionally evolved. The story is amazing. The way it captivates you and wraps you up in it is amazing. All together this is an amazing game.
Wow, this was an incredible journey to take. Graphics: 10/10 Easily the most beautiful game I've EVER played. Open world design is one the best as well, with its wind mechanic being a revolutionary aspect Story: 9/10 From the mythic tales to the side quests to the main story, this game delivers an emotional ride throughout its campaign. Gameplay: 10/10 Each stance is specific to an enemy type, add in all the long range options and tricks you get makes the combat a very complex yet wonderfully designed system.....just wish the stealth could've been a bit more consistent, but thats very minor. Would 100% recommend, and worthy of a Platinum
GoT is an open world sanbox that presents an alternate history based on the 13th century Mongol invasion of Japan. You play as a samurai and help liberating the Tsushima island from the invaders. I really enjoyed the game a lot. It was a really nice surprise for me. I did finish quite a lot of open world games and I expected GoT to be similar to other open world experiences but with a different flavor since it is located in Japan. However I was really impressed with both the cinematic graphics approach for the game, the fresh combat system and the story. The graphics are most of the time amazing. The game sacrifices some modern gaming elements in order to enhance other elements such as draw distance and the usage of particles. It is hands down the game that uses particles best. I was also really impressed with the usage of wind instead of map markers and GPS systems. The HUD is clean and this makes the whole experience really immersive. However the graphics are not perfect, some areas are poorly done compared to other games from this generation (water effects are mediocre, characters don't have lots of animations during cut scenes instead you most of the time get a time lapse where you skip certain actions such as using a boat for instance). None of these were affecting the game in any way. I think the overall decision to sacrifice certain element in favor of others works great for the overall experience. When it comes to the story I didn't really expect to be invested in it and I thought it will be a dull story but I was so wrong. The main story is great and as I progressed through the story I felt more invested with every step. Not only the main story is good but you also have a few allies who have optional side missions. Those were also great both in terms of variety and narrative. Yes, there are some missions that are repetitive, for instance at some point you have to liberate a few villages and the overall mission structure is the same but it didn't feel as a choir. Another great thing was the way the game presents collectibles. First of all it doesn't force you to collect 400 meaningless objects for a stupid trophy. Instead you find all kind of interesting areas in the game that reward you with a cosmetic item or some kind of upgrade. Sometimes you have to complete a mini game and it doesn't feel useless or repetitive. The sound is very well done and the music is spot on but it isn't something groundbreaking but matches the game mood very well. When it comes to the gameplay you have two options: to play as a samurai or to play more as a shinobi (ghost). Both are satisfying but the AI is somewhat dumb and makes the samurai approach more satisfying in my opinion. What I enjoyed is that you don't have levels but you have a skill tree. You can choose how to unlock it based on your play style. You also have a couple of side missions called "mythical tales" that teach you special moves and are also very well done both in terms of story and gameplay. When you fight you can choose between 4 stances and each one is has different moves and is good against a type of opponent. By the time I reached the end of the game I was kinda sad that it ended, that's how good it is. Also at the end you can choose between 2 different endings both of which are meaningful in their own way. I was really impressed of this game and didn't expect it to be this good. For me it is a 9/10, I would really recommend it to everyone.
Disclaimer: I played this game on Hard mode then switched to Lethal when it came out. This game has sufficiently scratch an itch that I've had forever: playing a good, realistic samurai game. Sucker punch did an amazing job of coming up with an engaging setting with great characters and a good story. However, there is one thing above all that stands out as the most spectacular aspect of this game: the combat. This is what makes you never want to put the controller down. The sword combat is so fluid and addicting. Parrying is easy to learn but hard to master. I seriously sough out mongol encampments just so I could rush in and fight a bunch of mongols; it was that fun. Also, the standoff mechanic never got old. I felt so satisfying to cut down those first few opponents in one silver arc from Jin's sword. The ghost combat did not feel as satisfying but that kind of makes sense since you aren't in combat per se. I enjoyed some of the stealth elements but the polish of the sword combat was just so much better. While the combat felt amazing, the camera constantly ruined it at times. Sucker Punch did not give us a targeting mechanic in this game which is a perfectly fine decision. I get that they wanted you to think harder about your movements. Yet, the camera would get caught on walls and in trees which completely messed up combat. This could've been easily fixed by allowing us to change the controller layout so that the combat buttons were on the shoulder buttons. That way we could've moved the camera while fighting. I'd say 1 out of 4 times, the camera would cause me to mess up the fight and 1 out of 8 times, cause me to die (of course this is because lethal mode allows for minimal error and you die in a couple hits). Besides the camera, there were other things I did not like. The facial and character animations in cutscenes felt lifeless and almost like I was watching Wallace and Gromit. There was marketing where Sucker Punch made us think we'd have a choice in playing like a samurai or playing like the ghost but the game forces you to play as the ghost so it seemed like a disconnect. I wish we had the option to really play like a samurai the whole game but I understand the purposes of the ghost for the story. Also, there were many times in combat where I would roll away only for the enemy to basically teleport to me and hit me. It seems like once the animation is going and they are about to hit you, rolling will do nothing for you which doesn't make sense. Now for all the things I loved. The world is beautiful. I genuinely loved every environment. The picture mode is impeccable and should be added to every game (I would have a photo op every hour I swear). The horse mechanics are the best I have ever experienced in a video game. The sound effects and ambient sounds are all so good (especially the sound of your horse galloping). The fact that they put haikus in a samurai game. Jin's butt. All the vanity gear was cool. I was invested in all the characters (but Jin felt flat compared to everyone else). The story wasn't award-winning but the emotional beats landed for me. The cinematic duels were fun. The short parkour puzzles for any shrine. Grappling hook! While I had a ton of fun, there are still things left to be desired.
this is a great game. it is honestly a game i'm going to play over and over again. to quote Upper Echelon Games "predictable isn't bad", . Im going to say this, a horse made me feel more character then all of the last of us 2 which i still think is a great game. the combat amazing with all the ways you can approach a situation, the story feels fresh and relevant and the music is great. some problems i've had with other games that have huge maps is lack of content, i'm sure others will agree with me ex. ac odyssey. this game does not have that problem it has a great mix of side activities which are all scenic and provide great world building. When jin refuses his uncles adoption wish i almost cried. this game made me almost cry. the dark path you see jin going down in his journey to becoming the ghost is sad and you no he's wrong to be so cruel but you understand all he wants is to save his home. you wish you could stop him but its impossible he's made up his mind and he will do whatever it takes to save those he loves. the khan is also a great villain. originally you see him you think is a ruthless killer with no motivations other than greed and lust but then he turns into a complex character and you can understand him, he feels overshadowed by the accomplishments of his family and wishes to prove himself. when jin starts on his journey to becoming the ghost you can see similarities between him and the khan but as the story progresses you can see just how different the 2 are. one driven to survive the other to conquer. one desperate the other cunning. one enraged the other collected. they are the same side of a different coin. at the end jin is able to move past his hatred and conquer the khan who could not move past his willingness to prove himself which ends up killing him. no i want to talk about the duels. these are great atmospheric treats and are a great tribute to the late Akira Kurosawa. if one nitpick i have i wish the duels had different shots to keep it interesting but its not that important and does not affect my overall experience with the game. if you have 70 bucks on your hand i recommend getting the digital deluxe because the added content is worth it for early game. but if not then get the regular edition its still a must play for ps4 and samurai fans alike. in conclusion is this game good. yes, yes it is and nobody here is being payed off to say that.


Ghost Of Tsushima has become my favorite game since God Of War 2018. This game is a beautiful Spectacle with an emotional, dark, and empowering story. You love the characters, they are all very well developed. This game has some of the most fun gameplay I have been missing for a while, From being a samurai to a Predator/Ninja/Omen to all that stand in your way! It's a game that doesn't demand anything from you. It's a very calm game. With the help of the guiding wind this game is a breath of fresh air and is definitely a comforting thing during this time. After completing the game I cannot wait till there is DLC or a sequel.
Lange nicht mehr ein Spiel mit so einer geilen Story, einer so unfassbar schönen Spielwelt und Charaktere die einem ans Herz wachsen gespielt❤️❤️
finally some samurai game and not some bull### I loved every second I played and If there was more content in it I would also spend my all hours for that as well. It was just so good that I never wanted to end. I felt so good with playing as a samurai, I mean it gave its feeling to you if you know what I mean
The game has a very interesting story and stunning enviroments. Very good combat, and it never gets old. Overall it's a very fun game that i highly recommend. But the game have some issues: the camera tends to be very problematic in combat, especially in close environments, and i dont't really like the missions where the player don't have freedom to approach.
A wonderful game. The players have been waiting for this for so long and finally Sony has pleased its Playstation fans. Congratulations to the entire Sucker Punch team. We hope that the quality in the new next generation project will be higher.
I am deeply honoured to have Ghost of Tsushima as my first review. From a vast and beautiful open world to a cast of amazing characters, this game is a must buy for everyone who loves open world story driven games. I have spent hours immersed in an open world that is complimentary towards Japanese culture and history. The combat mechanics are fluid, however, they can get repetitive at times. I like the customisation aspects of this game, though when dieing clothes, I wish you had the freedom to dye specific parts of the clothing. And yes I wanted the same attire as Kenshin Himura lol. The best possible way to play this for the greatest experience is on hard difficulty. The game on this difficulty is not too challenging but it's not easy either. Overall, being a huge fan of Japanese culture, I am stunned by this game. I highly recommend this game to anyone. This game, whilst not perfect, it has paved the way for future installments which I'm sure will not be disappointing. Ghost of Tsushima is a great first step for the franchise and is definitely a must play.

I very much enjoyed this game and Sucker Punch has done an amazing job in in bringing a Samurai power fantasy trip to life. It's a solid 4/5 game with some great mechanics and also very generic open-world tropes that we have all seen and done before, albeit, SP have tried to breath some new life into these to make them more interesting. Since gaining the platinum trophy yesterday, here's what I did and didn't like about the game: Pros: - Graphically the game is immense with fantastic art direction. The facial animations and English voice work for main characters is also top notch - The combat is really good, some of the best 'grounded' sword combat I have ever seen in a game. For the entirety of the game (some 30+ plus hours if you're going for the platinum) combat remains a delight and doesn't get boring. Towards the end of the game, with all skills unlocked, you truly feel like a complete badass Samurai which is awesome. - The music in the game is great and really fits the whole serious Samurai Japanese theme - Lack of an in-game hud is a complete breath of fresh air into the open-world format. It means there is less clutter on screen, you aren't constantly looking at a mini-map and progression feels more natural and organic. The guiding wind mechanic is really cool. There is a health bar, etc, when you enter combat or when you select weapons but they don't get in the way and clutter the game like something from Assassins Creed for example. - The standoff mechanic is fun, seeing you march into an enemy encampment and just challenge everyone to a duel. It never gets old. Cons: - Combat may be brilliant but the stealth is only bang average. It's standard fair with assassinations, using our bow for headshots, throwing chimes to distract guards. It's not bad, just average, something we have seen a million times in AC and other stealth action games. Enemy AI is also not the smartest. You could wipe out 3-4 guards in combat and one of their fellow Mongol grunts within earshot will just ignore the entire thing. - I wasn't a huge fan of the story nor the cast of characters. Jin (the main character) is very one dimensional and not much to him other than stoic Samurai survivor slowly unlearning his culture to learn new ways to fight. That's it. The other supporting characters are also very serious and one dimensional. The story consists of gain allies, fight big boss miss big boss, gain more allies, fight big boss, miss big boss and then gain final allies, etc. Not much else to it apart from that. Side quests are plentiful, sometimes interesting, but mainly generic. Speak to NPC, go to location to find lost brother, etc, fight a bunch of the same Mongols, and then return with said brother or item. They start off fun, but if going for the platinum you have to do dozens and dozens of these and it gets very tedious towards the end of the game. - Collectables are quite fun to collect in this unlike AC. Fox dens, haiku's and shrines really do stand out but they too become tedious to collect all towards the end of the game. - The game can be played in Japanese but the voice work for this is very poor. The game was obviously made by an American studio for western English speaking audiences so the Japanese voice acting has been dubbed over character models. It looks like a poor movie dubbing. I personally, think it should have been made with the Japanese voice acting as the priority. Again, the game is a solid 4/5 for me, I really liked it and would recommend it. Combat is utterly fantastic, graphics are brilliant, and it's the closest I have ever felt to becoming an all powerful Samurai. I feel like the game would have been better if it dropped the standard open world mechanics and if it was more akin to the likes of God of War or Last of Us's story based linear progression. I think the story would have been more focused and had a bigger impact, which for me, is the reason why I play games in the first place.


I really enjoyed Ghost of Tsushima. It is one of my favorite all time games. Here are some bullet points on what I loved: —The story and gameplay were fantastic —The scenery was beautiful —Amazing graphics —Fun combat. I loved duels. —Most user friendly game ever —The load times where the shortest in any game I’ve ever played. —Massive open world that seemed alive —Great side stories/quests —The ability to play multiple game styles: stealth, parry, bower, etc I highly recommend this game

Beautiful game love the score great story arc's side quest don't feel like a chore
Al principio no le tuve fe al juego. Pero luego de darle una oportunidad, creo que se merece esta nota. Sinceramente tanto la historia principal como las secundarias me mantuvieron entretenido durante todo el juego. La forma en la que Jinn lucha por detener a los mongoles teniendo que desafiar a su tío, dejando a un lado su honor como Samurai y convirtiéndote en el Ghost me gusto bastante. Por el lado de las subtramas, cada personaje se vuelve mas "humano" a partir de ellas y vamos conociendo sus decisiones. Es un muy buen juego que me encantó pero por cositas puntuales no le doy una nota perfecta
Only a TRUE Samurai would give Ghost of Tsushima a 10. The beauty of the colors, the detail of the different fighting styles that you can switch through on the fly, Standoffs, frustrating Duels, and an amazing story that greatly exceeded my expectations. A must play without a doubt!
Одна из лучших игр, в которые я играл когда либо. Ghost of Tsushima превзошла все мои ожидания. Хорошо сбалансированная боевая система, отлично проработанная графика, интересно повествующая история и дух захватывающая атмосфера, это все то, что меня вновь и вновь заставляет вернуться в этот чудесный мир и наслаждаться этой великолепной игрой. Низкий поклон Sucker Punch Productions за проделанную работу.
Is it "Assassins Creed Japan"? Yeah, it is. But with 100% more soul and 0% bullsh*t. This is a massive open world game, with a ridiculous amount of things to do, from great side quests to story quests, to finding collectibles, writing poems or even stopping just to check the environment on photo mode. I probably 'wasted' a couple hours just to take amazing pictures. On top of that an AMAZING, tight, solid, samurai gameplay. Playing as Jin is a blast, either as a stealthy ninja or a proud samurai. Killing the enemies never gets old, quite the opposite; the game keeps presenting us with stylish, gory finishing blows that almost paint the screen red. It's a great samurai game that looks like a great samurai movie. I've been tired of open world games for a while. Could not finish AC Odyssey, barely finished Days Gone. But Ghost? Could not put it down. I cared about those characters, their stories of vengeance and honor; I wanted to push forward, to clear enemy compounds or to just find another cool piece of vanity gear. Ghost of Tsushima gave me unforgettable 45+ hours of fun. And when I finally put it down, I was mesmerized, captivated but that amazing story that I got to be part of. A beautiful, almost perfect swan song for the Playstation 4.
Great game. Very fun and fluid play. Really helped pass the time working overseas. Might have to look into haikus now. Honestly best game I've played in years. Would buy again and again.

This is the best exclusive game I have ever played on the PS4 the entire Generation. The quality of the game is great but the feel of the passion behind the creation of the game as I play amazes me. The combat is great, sound effects, animation, I just truly love this game and I can't say enough about how awesome this game is and it's filled with content.. I pray for DLC!

Because I'm a trophy hunter, I had to finish Maneater before starting on Ghost of Tsushima. Maneater was ok as fun. Anyway, that's why I'm a little late to the party on this one. This game is actually a game I wanted to share some thoughts about, unlike Maneater which is just some great mindless fun. Right off the bat I thought Ghost of Tsushima took you right into the action, and I loved it. I didn't even know where we were but I also yelled "For >Tsushima!!" as I charged down the hillside. My point is I was pulled into the setting and story right away. What really grasped me at first was the stunning use of color, saturation and contrast. Every aspect of the graphics generally really wowed me. Then I got to experience the combat as a samurai. Before I got to explore any of the skills, learn any of the skills I thought the combat was satisfying. Even more so with the following perks. As the title sugguest you can be the "ghost". Which is also really satisfying. People say it's like Assassins Creed but in a samurai setting. That's like saying Doom is like Call of Duty with demons. No, Ghost of Tsushima feels alot more like it's own. Not like Assassins Creed or any other game with stealth elements. Sometimes the game forces you to do tasks as the ghost. Like telling you that if you get spotted it's game over. Although I love the stealth gameplay aswell as the thrilling face to face combat. I wish the game offered you more RPG elements in that regard. I think I should be able to always go the "honorable" way if I choose to. I played through the story with both the samurai gameplay aswell as the ghost on hard difficulty and I enjoyed every moment of it. Call me sappy, but I had some tears 3 times during the story. The game really explore every main characters and make you understand them and somewhat care about them. I thought they built their characters superbly. There was 1 or 2 characters I didn't really care about, but I think that might be subjective. The story overall was perfect and I couldn't ask for more. And this review has gone on for long enough, I just really wanted to share my opinions because this game really suprised me in alot of ways. One thing I thought was kinda bad for me as a trophy hunter is that the game has an obvious armor with traits you feel like you have to use if you are a trophy hunter. Because it gives you 60% map unfogging and the controiller shakes when you're near a secret or collectible. I never used any other armor or explore different combinations because of that trophy hunt. But if you don't really care about trophies, this is not an issue at all. The armor and items gives you plenty of different choices and combinations you can explore and tailor to your playstyle. I loved this game, and it's absolutely a high contender in my game of the year list. I thought it was beautifully done and the story was excecuted excellently. I'm hoping for a sequel in the near future!. Great job Sucker Punch!
My biggest regret is that I didn't bought the limited edition, because this game and the developers simply deserves every penny they can get for it. This game truly is one of the best I have played on my PS4 Pro. The visuals, the colors, the combat, the unlockables and the story of every main mission and side mission are just that great. I mainly play single player games on all of my platforms, but this game is easily in my top 3. Heck, I even created an account to review it, that's how much I enjoyed it. If you own a PS4 and are searching for a great time then I highly recommend it. Well done SuckerPunch. You did an amazing job.
Perhaps the best game of the PS4 generation. Certainly inside the top 5. Belongs up there with God of War, Bloodborne, Spider-Man, Uncharted, TLOU, Horizon Zero Dawn.
One of my fave games of all time game is simply amazing. I never got bored of this game the story with every side character just keep me engaged from beginning to end. Great gameplay that just keeps getting better and u progressed though the story. Jin is now the new playstation mascot.
MASTERPIECE. This game is truly of the best games ever made in this generation and with little to no critical flaws. The visuals are just amazing and so breathtaking. The photo mode is one of the best features of the game. Highly recommend

I have not loved a game in a long time as I have this one. The writing, the characters, the combat and upgrades, the music, the visuals. Absolutely everything about this game had me begging for more.


Jin Sakai Samurai game is the Game of the generations. This game has so many great things that other OPW games couldn't have such as almost no loading time while being such a graphically heavy game. And it's stunningly beautiful in all aspects of presentations. The best and most authentic samurai game I I've ever played. Now we have samurai, I really hope to see some Chinese martial arts centered OPW game like this to be out. Every gamer should try this game and feel what I'm saying.

The one and only game I ever platinumed on PS4. Granted, it was pretty easy to score it but what an amazing journey it was. And also, a game that i want to immediately play again after i finished it. Very accessible to both casual and hardcore gamer with easy to learn but takes skill to master combat, decent stealth and amazing story albeit the usual plot holes here and there. Overall, an excellent swan song for the PS4.


This isn't a bad game, the story is well told. The environment art is fantastic, and really shows off how beautiful games can look. But is this a 10? Is this a 9.3? Absolutely not, I don't know if my standards are high. But this game is plagued with bugs, you can kill bosses in 2-3 hits with "supers" after Act 1 making the game feel trivial. During Stand Off's you can have environment assets block your view making it impossible to know when to let go. The game becomes very repetitive after Act 1, map icons for things you haven't completed yet are a "lighter grey" vs a completed one which is a slightly "darker grey". The game is good, but it could have been GREAT if they had spent the time with Testers to test all the bugs that players keep finding. And also adding in quality of life things like different colored icons on the map and considering people who are color blind. Those grey's are even harder to see. Is the game worth playing? Yes, but just manage your expectations. I beat the game so I feel I got my moneys worth, but I just hope this isn't the new norm we can expect.


Having platinum the game obviously due to the ease of doing so I can strongly say that GOT is a great game to end the ps4 generation. Combat is the great highlight of the game with engaging main and side quest story that explores the journey of Jin and his companions in the pursue to liberate Tsushima of it's mongol invaders.
Awesome game, great chance to win the game of year awards, better then the last of 2.
Combat is excellent, but the story is very predictable, and probably the most boring protagonist in modern gaming history since Skyrim. Enjoyable fight scenes but skip all the side quests, rush through the main quest, and then don't come back to it.
My absolute favourite exclusive from Sony this generation. Loved God Of War, Spider-Man,Ratchet, and Driveclub, but it'd the samurai action and the freedom to tackle every situation how I want that sold me on Tsushima.

A great game made almost intolerable in its pacing due to unskippable repetitive narration and exposition with way too many arbitrarily slow horse trots and walking segments there for no reason other than to allow characters to talk. Please for the love of God add the ability to skip dialogue and cutscenes after completing the story.
This game is a visual tour de force And just an all-around very solid game. Playing on a PS4 pro on a 4k tv and I have to keep stopping to enjoy the beauty of the world, if you told me this was a ps5 game I would have believed you. The story is engaging and we'll paced, but I love doing random side missions that just add so much lore to the all ready incredibly world. Kudos sucker punch this game is a PS4 masterpiece.
Good game, graphics, history is really good, one of the best games of PS4...

Your heart will break by this one incident between the end of Act 2 and beginning of Act 3. And you will sometimes find yourself playing ‘A Chorus of Raindrops’ at the end point of the said incident.
Great Game. , beautiful scenery. great story and action. Best I've ever played
Cannot understand the metacritic score! This game is awe inspiring through and through. A love letter to feudal Japan and it shows in every little detail. The secondary characters are exceptionally deep and attaching. The art direction and narration alone deserve 90+. Although not perfect, the gameplay is by far the most fun I've had since Horizon. It sublimes the genre and doesn't pretend otherwise.
Im a pc player normally, but I also own a PS4 pro, the second i saw this game and watched some game play i wanted it, the second I started playing, this game sucked me in, i was on it everyday after work the gf thought she lost me. This game looks beautiful with 4k and runs very smooth, I beat this in less then a week with all trophies complete, i will definitely being playing this game all the way through, although I would love to see some type of multiplayer setup.


This game feels so so good to play. Very few games have combat this satisfying. If you love Japanese culture, you are going to love this. This game is better than Assassin's Creed games of today. I would give it 9.5 but don't think it deserves 9 for me because of so many memories I have of this game and a genuinely good time I had. Writing could have been a little bit better but I don't mind. It didn't ruin my experience, but there is scope for improvement. Minor bugs here. Onto my next playthrough now.
Excellent Game With best graphics, best gameplay, best characters, best story..... everything Just ignor the foolish critics their scores are always unjust and never match the public reviews. They just don't play the game complete by them selves or if they even play ot complete the give scores on the basis of past experience and try to match public scores and still always remain far away from public liking
Enjoyed it. Love it. Just 100 percent satisfied after a long time. Hopefully other developers will learn from it and create more single player experiences that is actually worth the money.
Amazing gameplay, amazing graphics. Contrary to some the open world is very welcoming and just overall fun to explore.

Ghost of Tsushima es uno de los últimos juegos para PS4 y vaya juegazo que es, gráficos excelsos, misiones secundarias variadas, enemigos que mientras progresamos se vuelven mas difíciles, y a nuestra disposición el entrar en combate directo o matar a los enemigos en sigilo, gran juego de Sucker Punch, este es un juego que tienes que jugar si o si, de los mejores exclusivos de la consola.
I really didn’t love this game. I thought it was a fun Assasin’s Creed game in Japan. The heavy handed combat tutorials(that will stop combat the entire game if you use the “wrong” stance) made the combat a hollow experience. I found the narrative incredibly obnoxious; it was so cool to stop combat to watch a scene about how dishonorable Jin felt he was being. The open world was interesting but overall not that stand out; the game offers very little replay value. By the end of the game combat is basically pointless because you’re an unstoppable force. The game was visually impressive and controls work; stealth is as much of a meme as it is in any stealth game. It was fun but not a console generation defining masterpiece.

so i just finish ghost of tsushima yesterday and wow holy moly what an absolute fantastic game, the graphic, the story and THE MUSIC . everything was perfect and i had alot of fun playing it . I actualy do it again with the english dub this time ! Sucker punch . congratulation for making the game of the year
A beautiful masterpiece a well describe story and an amazing plot with good character writing . The gameplay is just tremendeous the game did an amazimg thing that players can unlock certain skills by exploring and experiencing the openworld .Ghost of tsushima has delivered an open world that is beautiful and revolve perfectly around the story and character.
Robust game, all-arround flawless! Great great combat, stunning environment, touching story, really immersive experience because of the navigation system and all the details. The game uses some of the elements that worked out for past open world games and adds its own original concepts, making the perfect samurai game! It doesn't reinvent the wheel, but it still feels like it has its own identity and it holds up to the high standards of games like Rdr 2. Map is just the right size, with more than enough main and side quests. Sucker Punch didn't want to include all the interacting animayions, which made the game more fluid, less tedious with all the box-opening, plant-picking, which is pretty common nowadays. I hope they will make more games like this!
As a fan and interest of the Japanese culture, the Manga, the Samurai, the Art, Tattoos (half of my body is covered with a traditional Japanese tattoo), History and so on, I had high hopes in this game. Also I visited Japan twice so far. I bought an original Katana a few years back and have several books about Samurais and Japan. So I kinda know a bit about that country. With that background, I loved this game so much. It has it flaws for sure, sometimes a bug, or a bad camera perspective ruined a fight. But, this game is about the moments, the beautiful environment, the story and the great and interesting characters in it. The design, the world, the fights and spirit is rly accurate. As much as I can tell as a fan of Japan. I think this is one of my top five games I ever played on the PS4. Good job Sucker Punch!

Sucker Punch growth with their games are incredible, coming from infamous second son to this is mind boggling, This game has kept me up for weeks as I'm exploring everything on Tsushima the environment, combat, era, story and graphics are top notch, There are times where I had my mouth open looking at the beautiful artistic environment, and times where I was so motivated by the story and character motivations. Everything is almost perfect in this game, I just wish that the side content were more interesting like the witcher 3, but they did enough here to even out the score, This deserves a 9/10 but I will give it a 10/10 because of sucker punches growth and i believe these type of games should be encouraged and supported well done sucker punch.
Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best games of this generation, not only is this game so immaculately great it is also the game we always wanted a freaking samurai game. ( You can also play as a stealthy ghost if you want to, your choice), they even took the gps to the next level instead of a line leading you on the mini map or huge arrows leading you on the road instead, you follow the wind with just a swipe up on the touchpad. Also there is no hid during open world and there barely is during combat just your health and resolve. This also got Kurosawa Mode HOW COOL IS THAT
All around beautiful game and experience. Unforgettable. It gets you pumped with spectacular music and sound and intriging combat and brings you to a calm with amazing breathtaking visuals. It influenced me to read a lot, educate myself further about the cultures and places and times that the game takes place around ..if only school could have pulled me in the same way.
The storytelling of this game is incredible. It has so many side missions and they’re all different from each other. It’s also a pretty easy game so I recommend to at least play on hard mode.
i always wanted a game like Japanese samurai after finishing got im amazed by its gameplay and graphics also the story is on top i think this game deserves game of the year award my favourite game of all time

Just what I needed and expected from Sucker Punch. Gameplay is phenomenal, great open world with lots of enemies to fight. Playing as a samurai is just unreal, I just felt like a superhero slashing enemies. The scenery everywhere was just stunningly beautiful and the story just made me feel like it was my own destiny at risk. I was so invested in Jin's story, I felt like I was hurting with him at moments. Its just a beautiful game made with love.
The most beautiful game I've played and on top of that, the gameplay is smooth and rewarding. Great story, cool collectables, exciting upgrades. Can't ask for more.

A fitting sendoff to the current generation. Game design tropes that have become typical over the past decade are refined to their peak in this beautiful technological achievement

Game is beautiful and works flawlessly. It’s something different about this game but I love it. The fuels are awesome. The different samurai armors. The story is great. Love this game!
Take 10 points as a basis - a masterpiece: - 1 point for a horse not able to swim; - 1 point for hacky animation of movement in tunnel; - 1 point for uniform and long animations of interaction with altars, ponds, dialogues. The plot is good, the gameplay is nice and the combat system is very good. The most important thing in the game is the atmosphere of feudal Japan.
This game was PHENOMENAL. The story was amazing, and the way you play the game changes the outcome, it really is great. Beautiful environments, great characters, fantastic combat, and a big map. That map isn’t filled with nothingness either, you get to free settlements and farmsteads and find cool cosmetic items throughout the map, as well as shrines and things of that sort that will progress our stats a little bit. In conclusion, the game is great I’d recommend it.

It's the same old Sucker Punch open-world game with beautiful stories and enjoyable combat. Thanks, guys, it's the highlight of a pretty dim year for all of us.
A wonderful game. Pkaying it is enjoyable, often being lost in its beauty scenery or the combats. Story is interesting and often rewarding. The sude missions, although after some tine a bit repetitive, are so interesting at the same time. Japanese culture well thought of. Happy to have fi ished it. Well done to the tean and its effords
One of the best combat systems ever. This is what Assassin's Creed should have evolved into. The open world is a little empty, repetitive, and generic, and I wish the game was a bit more challenging and you didn't become overpowered so quickly, but it's a fantastic overall experience. That combat!!!

The game play of this game and the graphics are beautiful, the visuals of the forests are outstanding, and I feel that this might be the best PS4 exclusive in terms of visuals (in my opinion). The reason why I gave it a 7 is because the style of the missions is utterly TRASH! All missions require you to simply go find some clues and fight Mongols. While I felt that this game definitely has good missions like Castle Kaneda, but I still believe that this game is decent/good at best and IN MY OPINION, do not think this game is amazing nor a masterpiece. However, I am no critic and you should see the game yourself.
前評判にビクビクしつつ、発売日に購入してプレイ。 久々にハマりました。 一部ではなんやかんや言われてるようですが、普通に良作でした。 海外で作られたゲームなので身振り手振りや台詞回し等の細かい部分は若干欧米ゼスチャーでしたが、時代劇に対する強い愛情を感じました。 後半、戦闘がマンネリ気味になったのとクリア後何もないのは寂しい。 しかし総合的に大満足です。 人にオススメしたいゲームのひとつになりました。
After playing this game, it's probably my favorite game of the PS4. I hope to gawd they make a DLC(s) and continue this franchise... Spoiler alert: there are 2 invasions by the Kahn.
I wasn't looking forward to this game since I'm waiting for PS5. I recieved it as a birthday present and since then platd it. The combat is simple, but enjoyable the setting and scenery looked great throughout the entire game and the story was enjoyable.
got to put the mongols in their place!!! looks great plays great its a nice swan song for the last gen games i thought cyber punk would be it but it keeps getting delayed, this or ff7 remake for GoTY
Beautiful game with a very good story. Gameplay and combat mechanics were very smooth and responsive for the most part. A few camera angle issues here and there but nothing to ruin the experience. I recommend this to any gamer!
I love medieval Japan. And I'm a huge sucker for the old Akira Kurosawa Samurai Films. This game honors that in every way. The Combat is great and well thought out. I love how you use real stances to fight different enemy types in the game. At first, I felt combat was too easy, but once you get to the second big area, things change. Then you can set the difficulty to Lethal for those cutting edge people (Pun very much intended). The world environment art is gorgeous. I spend a lot of time taking pictures in photo mode! i love their User Interface as well. Using wind, birds, and foxes to take you where you need to go removes some of the old Video Game UI we're used to. it's a nice change and it keeps you focused on the world. The only downside to the game is Jin himself. He's not Commander Shepard or Nathan Drake. He serves his purpose though as a protagonist. I wanted what he wanted as a character, and that's still a win in my book.
one of the best Playstation exclusives. a total masterpiece, really impressed what SuckerPunch did. The game is beautiful, the environment is gorgeous love the wind guidance makes the exploration feel organic. Also, the combat is amazing it offers a lot of verities and it is satisfying one of the best combat systems in video games. customization is great also. Great story and characters and I enjoyed the side missions for every character in the game. plus photo mode which offers a lot of features a very enjoyable game I recommend playing this masterpiece. Great job Sucker Punch.
Hands down, the best game for me on ps4 right now. Exceptional open world experience with gorgeous environments to take photos in and intense/ brutal combat combined with a good story makes it totally worth my time and money. Im 30-40 hours in taking it all in slowly while enjoying the most beautiful environments in a video game. I was not though not a samurai fan before, but now want to be samurai myself, lol. Things i love and found unique about the game - The guided wind , very short loading times for an open world game, parry and combat system, the freedom to choose any quest without level up headaches, easy platinum that is satisfying and worth it.
Very nice game, i like Jin! The swordfighting is entertaining and addictive.The somewhat bland story and the repetitive game play are whats keeping this game from being perfect.



Pros: Great Combat No Grinding Beautiful Alive Open World Good Characters Great Side Content Rapid Fast Travel Amazing photo mode Great soundtrack Cons: Plot can get repetitive Missions can be repetitive A bit glitchy
It's a masterpiece. Got the platinum trophy, and if a New Game+ comes, i will do it all again. One of the most beautiful games i have ever seen, addicting gameplay, and amazing characters and stories.
Jogo Excelente, ele pode ter uns erros e um enredo clichê, mas isso não me impediu de me divertir bastante, principalmente pela temática japonesa samurai que eu amo, recomendado!!

Simply the best game ever, you can't stop fighting and you will do all the side missions, to get more skills and try different ways to kill your enemies. For me it's the best games I have ever played.
Beautiful aesthetics, insanely fun gameplay and a story that I i wasn’t expecting to be interested in, that caught me off guard and had me hooked hard. I loved it and I’m recommending it to anyone who will listen.

Story is doable and picks up in part 3. But the game shines in combat and won't disappoint. Definitely a worth a buy. If still sceptical then wait till sale.
Amazing graphics even after the dowgrade, the water is **** some parts of the game the graphics aren't that good, but the gameplay. in general it's a 10 no doubt. One of the best game ever. Waiting for the next one!
A superb game, a game that is a slow burner as it unravels you learn about your abilities as a samurai and as a ninja taking the fight in either of these styles open and head on or covert in the shadows like tenchu. I didnt enjoy the game at the start i found it too hard but this game rewards you more and more as you play. If you love single player this game is for you.


All characters have touching stories and are much important as a portrait of the Feudal Japan Era. They actually looks like random real people and not as super muscular or beautiful unreal models. The gameplay is just the best experience on this generation together TLOU2. And featuring all of this, the awesome landscape inspired by the real Tsushima Island. Ghost of Tsushima, TLOU2 or FF7 remake together , deserve the GOTY this year. If the prize make any justice for the game history.

This game is a masterpiece. The graphic and music are so good, which create a strong Japan culture phenomenon. I had wanted a 3A samurai / assassin game for a long time and this game fulfill my dream. The game play is fluent and interesting. The different attach styles are so cool and detailed. The story and the way that it is told is meaningful and well-written. I strongly recommend everyone who have not played the game yet go to the game store and grab one..... Oh, I forget you can now only purchase this game on the internet since the physical disks are all sold out. XD
Highly recommend. This game is beautiful and masterfully constructed via open world. The stances aspect is amazing and really gives you many ways to defeat the different enemies. One of my favorite things to do is obviously pet the cute foxes throughout the game. Love it!
The game is beautiful for starts. No other game I’ve ever played compares to it. The world pulls you in and makes you just feel like you’re there and the world in how it’s showed is a big part of that. The story telling also helps. The story is very well done and even though it can be predictable at times it’s still very much one of the best. The combat is smooth and feels good at higher levels and is very enjoyable. The stealth reminds me of the old Assassins creed games that I loved and even though I prefer though non sneaky way it’s still fun, though at times it does feel forced than it was of an option. The whole time I was playing I didn’t want to stop and I feel like that’s a good notion to the game. It didn’t feel like a drag or something was taking too long. I do think this is one of the best games ever in my opinion
Ghost of Tsushima is so much fun not only in gameplay but it's story too. This game is so historically accurate with its theme's that you end up learning alot about Japanese culture in the 12th century. I don't want to say much everything about this game is great. Although my only issue is the map size. While it's huge I feel like a lot of it could be trimmed down. You often visit areas once but never again. So that's a bit annoying. In addition with how many Fox dens there are OMG stop please. In any case that's really my only issue with the game.
This is literally my favorite game of all time. There is so much attention to detail to the art, story, side quests, etc. that you couldn’t get any closer to living as a samurai.

I've been waiting for a good Samurai game that doesn't focus Japanese lores/demons forever. This game is near perfect. It looks gorgeous despite not relying in high quality models. Which also allows for the pleasantly surprising ability to load very fast. I do wish there was less stealth in the game play or not force it, but seeing that it is very key to the story I don't hold it against it completely. I'm hoping that they will release new game plus. I've already platinumed the game so i don't want to start again until there's a patch for it.
Adorei o jogo, história muito boa e simples sem ser previsível, com uma ótima construção dos personagens. Gameplay excelente, e mecânicas de exploração bastante imersivas. Há muito poucos problemas de polimento, que são quase irrelevantes em relação a obra de arte que é esse jogo. Está muito bonito de verdade

Estou muito impressionado com este jogo, vislumbrar o cenário construído com tanta dedicação me faz me perder entre uma missão ou outra, mecânicas bem construídas mas batalhas e uma história concreta e sólida de até aonde podemos levar a honra em batalha!

Absolutely beautiful world design. Fantastic story, brilliant voice acting (best in Japanese), huge quest line, battle system is just top notch. Imagine playing the witcher 3 as a samurai but smoother movements and battle system. The game just makes you feel like a total badass while still feeling peaceful and calm. Straight to the top of my list GOAT! PS I setup my account here just to write this review.

The amount of care and detail put into this game should be the industry standard. Upon release it played so smooth and my entire run through it to 100% Saw barely a single bug, and even so they would only be minor audio bugs when they did occur. This game is so polished, lovingly crafted, atmospheric, gorgeous and just plain fun to play. Buy it
Great game.. Enjoyed it all the way through, its a highly recommended buy if you have a ps4.
A great open world story based game in a very beautiful feudal Japan setting. The combat style blends much better then almost any other game in a similar setting.
I bought this game with expectations of a 83% metacritic score. Boy was I surprised with this game. It is visually stunning, gameplay is amazing and truly is one of my favourite games of this whole console generation. GTAV being the only game rated higher for me.
One of the best game. Definitely game of the year for me. I have been playing games all of my life but this one just blew my mind.

After obtaining the platinum trophy tonight and nearly 100% completed the game, I can say that Ghost of Tsushima is the best game that I've played this year and an incredible way to end the PS4 generation. It has a great story with great characters and the game's theme make you think about the samurai Bushido code of honor that is romanticized a lot, and its flaws during times of war. Without spoiling anything, all I will say about the game’s ending is that it definitively left me thinking about the code and its impracticalities during war. Pros: • Great story with solid characters. • Great voice acting in both English and Japanese. Of the two I prefer the Japanese dub. • Great sound effect and incredible soundtrack. • Satisfying and fun gameplay that is challenging, but fair for the most part (I'll get into why I say for the most part later). • The guiding wind system, which gets rid of waypoints, helps to immerse you into this world a lot more than other open world games. • Particle effects. This game has some of the best particle effects that I've seen in a AAA game. From leaves falling on the ground and on water and seeing ash and snow, it's all incredible. With all the pros I mentioned, you would think that this game is a 10/10 masterpiece, right? Not quite, at least for me. There are several minor flaws and nitpicks that I have with this game. Little things matter, and when you have several little things in a game, it adds up. Cons: • No lock on system. I found myself not striking the enemy that I wanted to attack often. A lock on system would have mitigated that. • No audio or visual cues for regular enemy attacks from behind. Other games that I've played that have a similar (but not identical) style of combat like Mad Max, God of War 2018, and Marvel's Spider-Man let you know when an enemy that is behind you is about to hit you. Not in this game. I got hit from behind more times in this game than the 3 games I mentioned • Certain enemy attacks later in the game do way too much damage, even with charms that reduce the amount of damage taken. I recommend either more ghost-oriented tactics (which is what I did), or to use the samurai clan armor if you want to stick to playing as samurai instead of the ghost. (I played on medium difficulty btw). • No crafting system. Often, the loot that I get would be things that I am already full on instead of things that I need (i.e. game gives me kunai instead of smoke bombs when I’m already full on kunai and have no smoke bombs and vise versa). A crafting system that lets me use woods, cloth, and metals to craft more items would have been appreciated since these resources become pointless once you fully upgrade your sword, bows, and armor. They could have made it somewhat expensive to craft items to prevent spam. • Bad lip-syncing for the Japanese dub. I guess this one should have been expected since SP is a western developer, but still, they could have made the Japanese dub have proper lip syncing since the game takes place in Japan. • No subtitles for minor NPC dialogue in the Japanese dub. I would have to go back and play in English to understand minor NCP conversation. • No new game plus. A minor nitpick, but I guess SP can always release an update that adds a new game plus if enough people ask for it. • Some side quests can get a little repetitive and have you doing the same thing in some of them. (i.e. follow tracks on the ground). • Bugs and glitches. This game has them and some of them are quite hilarious. From dumb AI to enemies attacking you in hot springs, and getting stuck in small crevices, they are here but fortunately, none of them are game breaking and most can be fixed by restarting from the last checkpoint. All in all, Ghost of Tsushima is a solid 9/10. It’s a contender for game of the year in my eyes.
The game is good, however, it becomes repetitive at times. You feel like you are repeating the same random encounter over and over and freeing the same hostage over and over as they have only about 4 characters that look different each time. Same goes for liberating each village or farm, same goals but hardly any rewards except the minor increase to your legend status. There is little to no interaction with the people around you, they are invincible to your actions except for the odd option to speak to them. Having to change your stance each time during a battle can become frustrating as it kills the flow of battle and if you try to stay in a stance it stops the game completely until you change it. Switching between bows and throwing objects is also frustrating as it takes time and again takes away from the flow of battle. Another annoying addition is the constant adding of charms that are the same, you can end up with 5 or more of the same charms after completing different fox shrines or quests. What's good about the game is the stealth you can choose to follow or the head on attack.. the sword fights are good and the moves are plenty to choose from. Assassinations can be quite good, especially the jumping assassinations or multiple assassinations. The spectacular views in the game are also an eye opener. The standoff option is quite good and tests your reaction skills. The game as a whole delivers on it's scenery, stealth, assassinations and sword skills. It fails on it's lack of interactions with the environment, people, stance interruptions, repetitive fights/encounters that give out the same results each time, it's half decent storyline and it's lack of different people that more less look the same each Time you save them on the road or meet them in a village. It's constant ecounters with bears that see 2 people trying to kill it. It's general repetitive quests and encounters.
The game is amazing! Every little detail in this is so well thought of. The environment, the graphics, the story, the individual tales, combat, gameplay. Everything is perfect. A few bugs here and there but that's just a very tiny thing compared to the entire masterpiece. Highlu recommended!
"The proud do not endure" "The strength we need is all around us The mighty fall at last To be no more than dust before the wind" How do I say this? I had one of the greatest gaming moments in my life while playing Ghost of Tsushima when I was still relatively early in the game probably in the first quarter or first third. I was up in an upper room in a farmstead home overrun by a cadre of Mongol invaders and my purpose was to sneak around, cut down, pick off and whittle the foreign force down to size. Like a ghost. I was peeking out from one of that upper room windows and fired a bow shot and made a mess of it. Oops, not like a ghost at all. Before I know it, the alerted Mongol unit had figured out where I lurked and they rushed up the ladder to the floor I was at. The whole entire room was swamped with Mongol warriors including the leader of the squad, and I was fighting for my life. I had no other recourse but to unsheath and wield my katana into service. There I was dashing, dodging, parrying, rolling, slashing and thrusting in all directions towards an enemy foe or avoiding the slash of the blade of another one, or manoeuvring into a position of advantage or outmanoeuvring one that had me in his sights. When the whirling, clash and glint of metals had cleared, I remained standing and all around me were the dead bodies of my enemy. There are times, just like that, you feel like you are Maximus Decimus Meredius, Chen Zhen, Druss The Legend, John Wick all rolled into one. But Ghost of Tsushima provides its own identity, that is of the form of Jin Sakai that you now get a chance to be of. Then, in another moment of gaming, I had another experience where I felt I was Leonidas and the 300 Spartans at Thermopylae. I was out travelling the land, and stumbled upon some enemy scouts. I was overwhelmed but it so happened right behind me was a rocky hill that had a path wedged in between. And because of the lay of the ground as it is, I fell back purposefully retreating into the corridor flanked on both sides by outcrops, that kept the attackers front of me and bottlenecked. With that tactic, I was able to whittle the enemy force piecemeal and have them succumbing to me eventually. Highlighting two of those instances above probably is adequate. I have to point out the environment that you will be immersed in.... Oh my God, so beautiful at times, swirling with array of fallen leaves and caressed with flows of wind. The vistas, forests, shorelines, grasslands that greet your vision is so enthralling. The game is beautiful, breathtaking, captivating, atmospheric, engaging, absorbing, and heart-pulsing, when those occasions come into play. When you are in the midst of playing this game, it dawns upon you that the people - Sucker Punch, that is - that set to making this game a reality, truly love and care about it. You feel that same affection and attention put into to the main story and side stories that go along with it and how it has been fleshed to make it Japanese but at the same time universal. In addition, the homage paid to Japanese culture and samurai films of the past is also felt. It may not be entirely accurate timeline-wise, I guess, when it comes to things like the katana for example during the time of the first Mongol invasion, but the overall arc of it is cohesive using those Japanese related elements to furnish the game. Furthermore it is a work of fiction. It can be easily overlooked and does not detract from the story. It is a heartfelt one, and deep. And not just something tacked on just to backdrop a game, but it is profound. Gameplay mechanics, or design is nothing new. You would have encountered it with Lara Croft, or Nathan Drake or Far Cry (4) but it all come together very well for this game alone. Combat, to me, is fantastic with its diversity through stealth play or the various stances. It was very satisfying. I truly recommend Game of Tsushima. It has entered into my short list of games that you must play. I would say it is near perfect, and I give it 9/10 as a game. Even with that, I classify it as a masterpiece.
Such an amazing, beautiful game! I love the gameplay, and the story is very well-written and emotional. You become attached to the characters, even just minor ones. It's the first game I've ever gotten a platinum trophy for! It's a spectacular game and I was sad when it was over! I'm hoping for an update that will include a New Game+ option

If you are looking for an immersive open world game full of things to do and a great written story with memorable characters I would really recommend this. There are a lot of customisation options and resource management and gathering is very good in my opinion because there are not a ton of resources but it's rather simple. Really a must play and get it whenever you get the chance - you'll do yourself a big favour!!!
I like to give times to my games Thus open world games are my favorite. And this game has set a high standard. If it could be explain in one word that would be MESMERIZING!
What a fantastic game this is , from the visuals ; the game play, right the way through to the music . Everything about this game makes you care about the characters you come across . What a fantastic job Sucker Punch.
Absolutely stunning game, completed 100% and now starting again on hard, worth buying a PS4 pro right now even though the PS4 is out soon. Nothing bad about this game, except you can't stop playing it.
I suck with writing reviews but I never felt so emotionally invested in such a game I absolutely love ghost of tsushima and I have faith in gaming again sucker punch made something truely special and was glad to experience it!

This game is amazing!!! I've been a fan of suckerpunch studios since the first infamous game and this game really shows their capabilities. The beauty and the ferocity. The only things I have negative to say is minute compared to the rest of it all and that's climbing but that's just because assassin's creed has spoiled me. Overall easily worth Game of the year if not decade!!!!
Such a great and beautifull game for end of generation. I have some expectations for every game, most of times i'm less or more disappointed, but GoT is opposite. World is beautiful and living with designed astetic, music build atmosfere, story is good, open world isnt boring, wind with enviroments guiding you to targets locations instead tons of **** markers on screen. Undecided yet, but probably my top 3 this genereation (with Bloodborne/The Old Hunters and Monster Hunter World/Iceborne).


The point is: The game is very fun and unlike most games of this generation, from a certain point you become a powerful samurai, and it is amazing to be so strong, to slice and defeat enemies, but it is still challenging and it takes skill to win.


Masterpiece❤️ One of the best game in this generation Don't miss it...
Jogo sensacional,não entendo alguns criticarem o game de uma forma tão cruel como o Gameplay RJ fez falando que o jogo e todo bugado,comprei a edição especial estou no meio do jogo e não consigo parar de jogar,o game é lindo e roda liso no ps4 pro,história,enredo e narrativa impecável jogabilidade uma das melhores da geração parabéns SP pelo jogão que entregaram.
If you're a fan or Samurai or Japanese culture then this is a must play. Beautiful open world, excellent pacing. Compelling story and cool character designs. You can tell a lot of love and care went into the creation of this game and its an enjoyable experience from the start to the finish

It's a one time experience, no-one should miss it. I won't get into pros and cons of the game because there are more professional reviews out there, but this game is captivating and fun. Thanks for sucker Punch and the working team on ghost, 10/10 you guys. Everything is so well done from the story and missions to the trophies.

So this was the best open world game I have played in long time. The story was fantastic, Kohtan Kahn was a very well written enemy leader. I could see why he was the way he was, and I hated him. That is good writing. I didn't bother with the Black and White mode because the game is just to good looking to do that The end really hit home for me. I was genuinely sad after the final battle. It hit an emotional chord. I also personally really liked the no lock on system. I didn't think the game was clunky at all. There were some bugs like random npcs falling from the skies but it didn't hurt the experience. I am giving this a 9 on here only because I can't do fraction ratings. Personally I would give this an 8.5. It's not the greatest game of all time, but it's very good. That said it is much closer to a 9 for me than an 8 so by default it gets a 9,


A experiência deste jogo é, resumidamente, imersiva. Temos várias situações desafiadoras, inimigos que se tornam mais difíceis conforme você evolui e uma história impecável. Sem dúvidas, o melhor jogo da geração do PS4. Superou minhas expectativas.
This game is amazing. The landscapes are very promising and the game play is awesome. the story and music gets you engaged into the game. Needless to say, my only problem to the game is sometimes the camera will block your view by going around a tree or a Piller but other than that I really recommend this game.

I haven't finished all the story, but I definitely can say that I had enjoy a lot this game so far, the way the fights are made, the way that the story is tell is just amazing, while you start getting more abilities and expanding the map you realized how good it is, the landscapes showed on screen, the details on representing so good the old japan, and even the time you take going from one place to the other is just incredible. Music match with what you feel while playing, all the collection items you need to find are amazing. I highly recommend this game, even more if you're a person who is usually liked by Japanese culture.

The best PlayStation exclusive game of this generation. Beautiful world and fantastic Japanese climate. The best fighting system in games, with lots of equipment and skills. Fantastic hero transformation. Great main and side story.
It's good when a game like this became available, It's funny when u see a lot of badly reviews and bug videos, turning out to be all fake after playing. The game gives u a awesome experience about the mongol invasion. It's not easy to play, but and u get the timing of the stuffs, killing the bad guys became more natural. open world system here works in an epic way.


What can I say? This game was do good, the guiding wind feature was genious, didn't stop the flow of the game, the story heart renching, after losing so many do you kill your uncle or let him live on as a man who failed to kill the ghost. After getting the platinum for this game there was nothing left, i quite literally 100% this game. I had to delete it. Now I'm sitting here missing something. Nothing is fun to play now, after being spoiled by sucker punch and their amazing game. It is for me. Game of the year.
This is one of the best games in the genration. Great story, fantastic, beautiful, colorful open world combined with an excellent combat. Ghost of Tsushima is a game you don't wanna miss.
Ghost of Tsushima is easily one of the best games ever made. It might suffer some open world loops but it is fresh and unique. The story telling is miles above comparable games, the visuals are one of the best if not the best of this console generation and the combat system feels amazing. I ve played Ghost on my PS4 Pro with SSD and I want to say "thanks!" for amazing visuals, incredible loading times, no bluescreens, no slowdowns and with 1.04 next to none bugs. The sound design is amazing in combat, scenery and surround composing. I literally made more ingame screenshots in Ghost then with all my other PS4 games I ve ever played combined. This game will take you on an amazing journey and even with only going for the main storyline you will have incredible fun, deep story telling and complex character development on a course of 30 to 55 hrs depending on your play style. I do not want to go into detail, you have to explore this game for yourself.
Absolutely loved the game great story, great visuals, great characters, and a good combat could have been slightly better but still works. Only issues you will face is some glitches but they are trying to improve them with each update. At the end it's a must play game for a PS4 owner have a good day .
So having now put 50 plus hours into this game and finally finished it. I think it's time I give my opinion of this game. Ghost of Tsushima is a truly phenomenal game for alot of reasons. I haven't been this invested in an open world game in along while. GOT has a esome fight system that makes you feel like a true samurai after you dispatch five guys in a standoff or straight up fight. The world is beautiful having huge fields with blowing long grass or forest with red or yellow leaves on the trees as well as the forest floor or having a duel in a field of red flowers. The game has an ability to make you want to explore as well as you should. Weather it's following a fox to shrine or a golden bird to an object or place you would have probably past. Having little to no hub is great. Giving you that movie feel. On that note my second play through will be in Kurosawa mode making the game not only feel like a movie but also look like it. This is a must play game! I definitely recommend this to action open world game players or anyone looking for a fun epic story driven game.I gave it a 9 for the slight technical issues (nothing gamebreaking)
Exelente video juego, el mejor de la generación con gráficos e historia únicas realmente es alucinante, y definitivamente mejor que the last of us y sus mamadas “políticas”

Fantastic story and setting. The characters have depth and the gameplay too helps in setting the right atmosphere. The hard work and thought the studio has put in the combat mechanics is clearly noticeable. Ghost Of Tsushima is one of those games that reminded me that video games can be art in its purest form.

Wow. What an amazing game, story, sound & music, and the graphics are out of this world nothing compares. The combat is fluid and feels great, but personably I would recommend playing as samurai instead of the ghost (stealth). It’s that good I had to write my first ever online mini review out of appreciation and respect on what I would class as a masterpiece and I have to commend the developers, Sucker Punch. It’s a 10 out of 10 for me, and without a doubt game of the year and quite possibly the decade.
Beautiful game with a lot to do without getting repetitive. One of those games you want to 100% My only problem with it is sometimesthe camera isn't great but apart from that I'd recommend it to anyone
Just very very good game, you can spent +1000h and it will not get boring. I love world, looking forward to PS5 to get better view :) one of the best game for in game photography. Battle part is great but need little work on camera side, plot and character personality is on point if you consider they are Japanese on that sentry.

Desde el primer momento es un juego genial con acción y estrategia, la ambientación esta llena de vida, el movimiento del viento para guiar la aventura es increíble, los paisajes, las playas, los lagos son muy detallados, simplemente es el mejor juego para cerrar esta generación.
Wow ! Two words.... Buy It. NOW !! Yes it can all feel a bit samey now and again, but I don’t even care, taking 5 dudes out in super slow mo Samurai style, clicking straight into Ghost mode for a further three.... makes you feel like a Samurai Super Hero, and it NEVER gets old. Story - compelling and some side missions are truly touching and emotional. Gameplay - no joke - perfect Graphics - at their best they are amazing, but landscapes can get a bit glitchy. Give me DLC already people :) Also Kage is the best ;)
O jogo realmente muito bem elaborado, história bem digna a cultura japonesa. Algum detalhes de bugs mas nada que aos poucos as atualizações vem corrigindo, recomendo por ser uma experiência muito bem vinda neste final de geração e exclusivo, Playstation realmente é a estação de jogos mais bem servida.


Absolutely beautiful game. Everything about it was perfection including the way to find collectibles, the refreshing combat system, and the amazing, driven story.
To put it very short, this game is 2 things: BEAUTIFUL & ADDICTIVE And I don't know if other people mentioned this, but this game may have the best sidequests ever. Ghost of Tsushima is a must buy, 95/100
Honestly I feel like I have been waiting for a real true serious samurai game for 20+ years and this game deserves a 10. Combat is great and the story is amazing.
This game is just breathtaking. I love the setting, the period, the story, gameplay and graphics. It's not revolutionary but not every game needs to be. It's just a great game that makes you have a good time with a lot challenges but nothing too overwhelming. No micro-transactions, not endless filler quests. Just a great game. Ps I'm new to game reviewing, only reviewed two games.

This is one of those rare games that seem to come out of virtually nowhere and blow people away. Ghost of Tsushima is the single most beautiful video game created thus far; it looks amazing on my less-than-spectacular set-up of a PS4 Slim and a non-HDR HDTV. Just this single game alone makes me want to drive to Walmart and purchase the PS4 Pro and a better television, but since we will be able to play this game on the PS5 I’ll just wait for that to be released. The story is pretty great in my opinion, although Jin is somewhat of a lackluster character, kinda ruining the fantastic job of his voice actor who was just simply excellent. I wish that they would have given him more lines. The game features excellent voiceover work by the entire cast and the secondary characters are pretty great. The fictional Kublai Khan is one of the more interesting video game villains in years and feels like he is a real man; he’s not just some one-note mustache-twirling bad guy. Lord Shimura, Jin’s uncle, is a loving, caring uncle that has some difficulty expressing his feelings for his nephew and is obsessed with his honor as a Samurai. Kenji is a hysterical thieving sake-brewer. Yuna and Taka are great as well. The Last of Us developers Naughty Dog should take note - Yuna is an excellent example of how to make a strong female character and not an annoying twit. Yuna is not some great Japanese beauty, she’s kinda plain. She doesn’t have some ‘super-sexy’ body that she flaunts; she’s modestly-dressed. But she’s a tough-as-nails chick that’s able to kick some hiney in a very bad situation. While the main quests are not particularly long, there’s a ton of side quests that will take up a lot of your time and, unlike many other video games, you’ll not regret taking the time to complete them. Do expect to spend a fair amount of time with Jin just standing there while you stare in amazement at the games’ environment. A lot of the game world will leave you open-mouthed and nearly speechless. How Sucker Punch managed to create such beauty in a game that’s only twenty-some gigs or so in an age where most games push 100 gigs is a mystery, but by the Good Lord above they certainly pulled it off. There is a ton of stuff to find, from clan banners to sword kits to flowers to trade to merchants to dye your amor different colors, and there’s a crapload of hats, headbands, face masks, and helmets to find. The loading screens are so quick that you don’t have time to read more than one tip, and sometimes not even that. It’s pretty insane how quickly the game loads. The only real flaws this game has are the somewhat annoying platform climbing sections (literally my only deaths in two play-throughs of this game have been from falling while trying to get Jin to grab the next rock or branch) and the utter nonsense that is Jin’s apparent phobia of ladders - getting him to climb up or down one can be a frustrating, but funny, experience. I don’t think that most people would not a whole lot of interest in playing the game again after getting the Platinum trophy, although Sucker Punch just added a new Lethal mode where one hit is death and that sounds like a bunch of fun. Though it is not perfect it is very, very close to it, and is easily my favorite game of 2019-2020 even beating my beloved Final Fantasy VII Remake, an accomplishment that I did not think possible. I am already chomping at the bit for a second Ghost game and happily, as the game sold so well, I’m pretty sure that Sucker Punch will start work on a new Ghost game soon. TL;DR - Ghost of Tsushima allows you to live out the fantasy of being the Samurai/Ninja that you were born to be. Ridiculously highly recommended. If you do not have a PS4 this game alone is reason enough to buy one. 9.75/10. An American masterpiece.


Amazing game A must play ps4 exclusive, one of the best I would say. The graphics, the colours, the gameplay everything is just awesome. Great end to ps4 line of exclusives
O melhor jogo q joguei esse ano. História muito boa, jogabilidade impecável, gráficos esplêndidos.
Игра просто заебись, но есть постоянно встречаю баги. Но геймплею не мешает. Сюжет просто великолепен. Я даже прослезился. ИГРАТЬ ВСЕМ
It's alright. The visuals deserve a lot of recognition for what the team was able to accomplish. Also the setting and general open world design are very good and competent. For me, the problem was I got bored after the first area and didn't really get into the narrative or combat. It's a fine game, and if you like open world games you can certainly do worse. Would recommend waiting for a discount, though.

One of the Best game i have ever played...i wish it receives Game of the Year. Absolutely loved it.
Never rated a game on metacritic until now and don't know how to write a proper review but goddamn this game deserves a 10/10. Was a little bit skeptical when the initial reviews came out but my friends recommended it so I gave it a go and man was it worth every penny. Everything about this game is done really well from story to graphics to gameplay. For story, missions are divided into 3 sections which are main missions and 2 side missions namely tales of tsushima which contains story about allies and mythic tales which contains the story of old samurais. These tales of tsushima and mythic tales keeps you so addicted that you won't even do the main missions until you are done with these. Main story was a bit short, but those side missions make up for it and even after you are done with the game, you'll keep asking for more. For graphics, Sucker Punch did a really good job optimizing the game on a 7 year old hardware with such graphics. It looks really gorgeous and truly gives you a feeling of Japanese culture and you can take good captures with the photo mode which has so many options for you to set a perfect scene. For gameplay, movement and platforming are really smooth, combat is good and has a variety of enemies which require a particular stance in order to kill them which makes it a bit challenging and fun when you are playing at least at hard difficulty. AI is good, enemies just don't stare at you while you beat up the other ones, they'll attack you and you'll be forced to engage with them as well. Exploration is fun as well with all the platforming and riding the horse in such a good atmosphere. Map has many variety as you keep progressing in the game. At last, I wanna say that if you own a ps4, you should definitely give it go and you won't regret it. A 10/10 from me
i finished the game Everything about this game is beautiful and precise.. combat is by far the best Sword on Sword combat you will ever see and the beauty of the island of Tsushima will make you pause your mission just to capture that perfect screen shot to share with others
This has just pipped Read Dead 2 as my all time favourite game. I’m a big Japanese / Ninja / Samurai fan, so that adds to the score for sure. Still. Brilliant. The fighting is awesome, enjoyable as stealth or head on. Abilities develop nicely, heaps of customisation opportunities. Fantastic Japanese-style story. Loved it right to the end.
This is the only game of the PS4 generation that I actually went through the effort to platinum and I'm too lazy to leave reviews so had to create an account here lol. Absolutely excellent execution from start to finish, the environment and map is stunning and immersive, combat is just so satisfying and on lethal it is properly challenging (especially if you start with a bad stand of!) and the duels/stand offs are straight up Kurosawa, serious Samurai film vibes. Other AAA titles, pease take how well received this game was, it's refreshing yet somehow familiar feel and just so well done. To give balance, the criticism o will add is I would have liked some credit, or an Easter egg for completely avoiding the use of a certain nasty weapon, and have a little more say in how that would effect the story as a result but yeah I understand why that would massively extend the scope of this game if they had done so. If you extend the franchise, please consider something like this
One of the most visually stunning and beautifully rendered games I've yet to see. The story is wonderful and there is plenty to do and explore. Fantastic game!

Ghost of Tsushima is a very good game, the story is amazing and the island of Tsushima is interesting and big but when you complete 100% is boring because the island is completely empty you dont have nothing to do. Would be good an arena to fight with enemies or retry enemies bases Pd: sorry my english is not good


After Platinum the game more than a week ago i feel like i can say that this game was FUN . very enjoyable , i was never bored and always looked forward to the next camp/ mission. I especially liked how u could take different approaches most of the times id swap armor to fulfill wich way of killing my enemies id prefer wich never got dull. I must say that the side quests that have u either learn more of the island and or characters are great. especially enjoyed the blue ones... mythical i think was they re name. And i loved the duels. ofc the game has flaws wacky camera sometimes hitting air... lack of replay ability is also sad but overall amazing with the most beautiful scenarios and fun photo mode so far. Id give it a 8.7 at 10 so a 9 it is
Beautiful open world with a greatly immersive guidance system. Swordplay is excellent. Main story is good, without being great. The "twist" can be seen a mile off, but its still very well told. Companion tales are excellent, though Norio's could probably cut to the chase quicker. Side tales can be a bit cookie cutter, although the stories thar envelope them are well told and generally very sad. Camera lock on is an issue. Other activities are a bit repetitive too. Platinum hunters will be sick of fox dens very quickly.


Easily one of the best games of this generation of consoles. It’s a toss up between it, RDR2, and FF7 remake. Admittedly I may be biased with FF7 remake, so that would put it up there with RDR2. It’s astonishingly beautiful in both color and black and white! Game play isn’t too complicated. It’s just the right level of difficulty and overall just plain fun!
A gorgeous world with fun gameplay that you will get into after a while is just another example of Sucker Punch's skills. But the story and characters take the cake, especially Jin. If you want a game that's the ultimate samurai fantasy game, a story that shows how brutal and condemning war is, a barrage of characters that you'll remember to till the end and want to see another hypocritical villain like Thanos and protagonist that is really fun and memorable and to wear cool armour and masks and to show off your katana skills, this is the game to play. What a stunning game.
This game is really crazy, I'm laterally spending the whole day playing it I'm in LOVE !! , the big issue in this game is the photo mode.. it's taking my time and every second i screenshoot, otherwise the game is a MASTERPIECE
Un buen juego, imprescindible para todo poseedor de PS4. Una narrativa interesante que te mantiene con esas ganas de seguir avanzando en la historia, todo lo contrario de lo que ha sido The last of us II. En un segundo plano, la calidad gráfica es simplemente bestial.
Amazing to see what Sucker Punch has achieved going from Infamous Series to Ghost of Tsushima. The game looks gorgeous.the world is so beautiful filled with a lot of activities to enjoy , the wind system really makes the game special and refreshing
I recently beat Ghost of Tsushima and I can positively say it was worth every hour dedicated to playing. I experienced an immersion of beatiful artistic design from every little detail of the grass and trees to the characters. This game in my opinion has the best artistic visuals in a game to date. The story had my interest the whole time and the side quests had a very good integration with the main story. From weapons to armor and ever skill the game play felt as engaged as i could get as switching from stealth to upfront fighting was very smooth. I definitely recommend to anyone who is look for a great stealth and combat based games. The playability is amazing and im looking forward to replaying the story again with the different play modes.
Ghost of tsushima really surprised me, I was so excited but not that much,then I realized that this game it's a masterpiece,a world full of objectives and a truly wonderful history,I only missed choices in the game,like in the ending,kill or not your uncle,and your only family,that was amazing,and should be more present in the game,but for me,still a 10/10


The game is fun, it does get repetitive, but still I enjoyed playing it. The repetition kind of kills it for me though. I was just wanting it to be over by the end.
Jogo muito bom ! Gráficos lindos , jogabilidade excelente. Pequenas falhas , poderiam ter explorado mais os personagens com diálogos como em the witcher 3 e com escolhas . Mas isso não atrapalha. Recomendo o jogo.

Stunning visuals and polished combat! Very easy to get distracted side questing too. Only problem I have is with the camera, which can be tedious to use. Also, the 1v1 duels don't have a great amount of variety in their fighting styles, lots of the same moves are reused.
It took me so much time to write this review only because of the fact that I had so much fun playing this game I almost 100% it too this is one of the most enjoyable ps4 exclusives that came out this year unfortunately there are some that didn’t make the cut *ahem* last of us 2 *ahem* but this game was just too good Story : you are playing a young still learning samurai warrior named jin sakai you are marching into battle with your samurai army to defend against the Mongols who want to invade tsushima and then japan (the mainland) after you lose the battle and a thief saves you , you understand that there is no way an honorable samurai can defeat the Mongols so you try to seek another way and so you begin your adventure Cons: - are a lot there of performance issues such as bugs clunky gameplay frame rate drops and the overall performance of the game sometimes just disappointed me - the way that you level up way to fast is really annoying because the game just gets easier even on hard difficulty the game was super easy for me - the game moves at a really slow paste in the first act to a point of me not even caring about the story at all - the loading of armors when you want to see how they look when upgrading them is just humiliating even making me feel as if this is a ps3 game that takes time to load things - there are a good amount of plot holes which made me just sit there and ask why? to many times - there isn’t much story in the first and the second act only in the third act they picked up the pace Pros: - the game is just too beautiful you can just sometimes walk around the map with your flute just chilling and playing music and enjoying the scenery - the camera mode is superb in every way and I managed to snap some awesome moments - the game takes a lot of elements from other open world games such as batman arkhan knight and shadow of Mordor some people say its recycling and unoriginal but I think they actually improved on those elements and made them even better in this game - if someone spots you while you are in stealth the whole camp won’t run at you as if they all share the same mind which is the thing, I asked from every stealth game I played - the loading time in this game is just nonexistent I don’t know what black magic sucker punch did but I really appreciate them for it - combat feels clunky at first but you get used to it and when you do you just can’t stop killing people for no reason because it’s so much fun - side missions are actually fun and really rewarding - the sheer amount of content and the size of the map will keep you busy for at least 40 to 50 hours all this brings me to my final score which was an 8 but after the second act I don’t know how and why but the game just gets so much better in game play and in story and just the amount of content is sometimes overwhelming but in a good way so my final score to ghost of tsushima is a 9 out of 10 I really recommend this game please do yourself a favor go and buy it because its really worth it unlike other ps4 exclusives out there *ahem* *ahem*


One of the best games ever made! I love this game! Absolutely LOVE it! No grinding, no loots, no cheap deaths or cheap mechanics. The game is challenging but always fair. Also, this is the most beautiful PS4 game ever (yeah I said it)!
Es un juego con muy buenos gráficos, excelentes jugabilidad, entretenido, con una historia muy interesante, unos paisajes hermosos y muy bien trabajados, se nota que le pusieron mucho cariño al juego. Sin embargo tiene pequeños bugs y creo que el juego tuvo que haber sido originalmente en japones y no en inglés.

This game truly is amazing. It really hit the spot in a time devoid of anything meaningful to play. The detail in the worldspace is absolutely stunning. The gameplay almost flawless. The story was very good as well. The one thing I would praise this game for above all other things I have mentioned is that it was without the trash that some other games have in them. This game had very limited profanity. No real nudity or sexual content. I applaud the producers for not putting that trash in the game. It definitely wasn’t pushing an agenda other than good wholesome content that was thrilling and memorable. I can also say this game has a very high replay value. I look forward to any DLC plans they may have.
This game is perfect! not only because the story is historically accurate but the graphics and story are amazing not to mention the combat mechanism is amazing and easy to follow.... thumbs up for GOTY 2020
Defiantly the best open world game that I’ve ever played. It is the only game that made me cry and even once. It’s has some minor bad moments as any game has. But giving that it’s an open world game it’s definitely 10 of 10.
The story flows as how most people will expect it would be. Fight, got beaten, learn new ways, get new allies and then revenge. The story of the game tells player that we need to make different choices in life in order to survive. Even though some times we need to break the tradition. Betrayal in order to survive in a desperate life is also introduced in the main story. The part where Jin learnt a new ways to accomplish his mission by breaking the tradition plays a pivotal point in the story and gameplay in the game. Throughout the story and side quest, from helping a villagers to find his missing father to rescuing Shimura, Sucker Punch successfully draws players attention by putting in those NPC’s shoes during a difficult moment (War). Combat was very satisfying and dangerous at the same time. Few hits by the opponent and you face loading screen. The game uses parrying and dodging system. Furthermore, the latest lethal difficulty punish player who made a mistake by dealing more damage, a more aggressive situation, and harder to parry and dodging but at the same time. However, “it’s 80 samurais against a thousands army”. Unlike samurai, the Mongols fight in group so don’t expect it’s going to be easy. The game offers a feature called “Standoff” which allowed player to take out 3 enemy (upgradable). This system still depend on the situation in the game as sometimes player did not get to choose to perform a standoff before starting a combat due to its story related. Players need to release the long hold triangle button instead of pushing the button to initiate the slash and 1 hit kill. This could be difficult at some point if player was nervous and did not release because all this while, I guess all game uses “press” instead of “release” the button to initiate a fight. See the reverse psychology here? But in the end of the fight, just like Sekiro, you will feel rewarding as hell and satisfied at the same time. Over time, you won’t feel fear walking in and out of the fight if you fight wisely. Try to challenge: Broken armour, no upgrade, no charm, lethal difficulty if you like!! The way the game let Jin to learn new stance is interesting. The process to unlock stances is by either observing the Mongols Commander moves in the camp or defeating them. Just like in real life, we learn from our opponent and then develop new skills to counter them. Hence, player was determine to learn more about Jin’s opponent in-game to unlock new skills. All 4 stance move has its own upper hand when facing different type of opponent. Over time, when you get used to it, try taking out opponent by using all types of stances. This game also offers the coolest Boss fight I’ve ever experienced. From the Mongol general to the classic samurai sword fight, you never see anything like this before in a game. On the stealth part. The enemy AI was a bit dumb. Took out a friend on the other room while his partner was not alerted by his voice. If you are someone that understands the Japanese culture, high chances are, you will appreciate every detail in this game. From the architecture design of a temples, shrines, pagodas, village houses, inns, the sewage in the village, every interior of these buildings was accurately or nearly portrait inside the game. The game also introduce “Haiku” (Japanese Poetry), where Jin appreciate the beauty of the nature in Tsushima island to reflect his current life. I myself practices Buddhism, at the very first time I saw the Goddess of Mercy in Golden Temple, I bow to the Goddess and surprisingly a lot of butterfly spawn out and I really appreciate how Sucker Punch connect those details together. The sword that Jin uses, it’s called “Tachi” instead of “Katana” in this game in case you switch into Japanese dub while playing. It is correctly pronounce in this game as in real historical timeline. Japanese sword during that time was called “Tachi”. However, please bear in mind that the “Chiburi” (action where Jin clear the blood away from his sword) was practice during the late Edo Period while the game timeline was Kamakura period. It’s not historically accurate at this point but it is still nice to have this features in the game. Throughout the story, Sucker Punch also expose to the player where different class of people during the feudal Japan holds different kind of lifestyle and difficulties in their daily life. From a thieves who stole a farmers food to those samurais who lost their masters and clan and become a “Ronin”. I always find myself staying at the same spot for a period of time to sink in and appreciate the artwork Sucker Punch has put into this game. Players are able to freeze a frame anytime and snap the creative photo whenever they want. I also like the way how the lightning in this game affects the overall tone and mood in this game. the word “Breathtaking” is the best word used to describe the graphic in this game.
Omg what a game, I didn't initially pay much attention to this game before release due to thinking it was going to be another souls like game, I Haven't really got the time or blood pressure for those games anymore, but wow what a game I haven't felt like this much of a bad ass samurai since getting addicted to bushido blade back in the 90's, only minor issue I came across was the camera can get a bit crazy in some fights mainly when in buildings. But other than that it's amazing. Flicking the blood off my sword and putting it away after every single fight never got old, the duals make you feel like you're in an old samurai movie just everything about this game the world and all the little details pulled me in. Again just an amazing game just hope they make another one.

One of the best games if not the best game I've played until now. The gameplay, graphics, mechanism, storyline, the combat. Everything was nearly perfect and very satisfying. Giving the thought that it's nearly 50-60 hr game to get platinum. It doesn't get boring even after the story. The side quests, the duels and character customisation are fun to do as well. As of now there isn't any bad thing about the game. The only game I could compare with this would be my other favourite: GOD OF WAR. playstation executed a perfect end for this gen console
I love this game! I wasn't sure initially from the trailers if I would like it but I tried it and I was not disappointed at all. It is a visually stunning experience with intense combat and an interesting story. I easily put in 40+ hours into this game since there is so much you can do I enjoyed every moment of it. I would say this is my game of the year so far.
Pure joy. That pretty much sums it up but i have to write 75 characters so foxes, pure joy, graphics, pure joy, story, pure joy, game play, pure joy, having to bow to every single person who bows to you so as not to be rude, pure joy.
Being a fan of Samurai and Ninja games since Tenchu, Way of the Samurai, Onimusha, Ninja Gaiden and of course Sekiro, Ghost of Tsushima is a well made game, open world, fantastic and beautiful looking game. Really enjoy it! I wasn't a big fan of the Infamous games (despite still played the first one (PS3) and Second Son (PS4)), but that's just my preferences. But Sucker Punch delivered a great experience for me with this new IP. 9.5 out of 10!
This game is simply amazing, the story, the gameplay, the visuals. All of it makes for a excellent experience and is addictive! Definitely a must play!
Great game! There's not much more to say. It has very complex mechanics for both stealth and melee combat, which are not hard to learn at all. It's so much fun to adapt to the different enemy types and see them run away in fear sometimes. From the looks, it is just gorgeous. Everything looks amazing, and it feels almost soothing sometimes to ride through the different parts of the island and to just listen to the sounds of the environment and watch the beautiful landscape.
A incredibly fun game with a incredible story, this game not only was great fun to play but it also made me cry while playing I enjoyed every moment playing it
Game of the year contender no doubt. Combat didn't get boring at all, and I did everythint there is (platinumed it). Love the atmosphere, the music, the story.. Everything is amazingly well done! It does Assassin's creed better than Assassin's creed! A must play for every Playstation owner!
By far the best game on the PS4, the graphic is stunning, the progression on the character is fun, the open world is interesting to explore, story is engaging. What more do you want? It's a perfect game. Must play!
Ici un pont suspendu, là un lac gelé, et puis perdu ce petit escalier aux pierres imparfaites, enfin, partout, ces feuilles et insectes virevoltant au vent… Les scènes pittoresques sont d’une poésie infinie là où se tiennent affrontements sanglants et chevauchées solitaires. Combats intenses, histoire passionnante et réelle satisfaction de se sentir progresser dans sa maîtrise du système. Quant à la narration, elle réussit bien ce sentiment d’une histoire dans laquelle on est pris et sur laquelle on a prise.

This review migth be a bit late but i want to share my feeling about this game anyways. Ghost of tsushima is one of the best open world games i have played in a while. But there are some problems witch a lot of the other reviews on this site seem to have missed, like there being way to many trailing missons and it being very buggy at times. There are also some missteps with the sorry like many people seem to act out of character. But i do not want to seem to negetive on the game since there so many positives in this game and they defenetly outshine the negetive. Such as the amazing comet and a wonderfull ending witch almost made me tear up. Overall tho ghost of tsushima is the best playstation exclusive since god of war in 2018 and it is a game witch i would highly recomend everyone with a ps4 to pick up.
This is a very well made game and actually designed to be fun with great music, graphics, and game play. Story could have been better but this is not a narrative game in my opinion. It nails everything else right and has solid replay value. The intro to the game is incredible, one of the best i have seen in a while. It's historically accurate to the time period/country (minus the actual invasion and characters) and i found myself spending a lot of time just standing on a high mountain/hill somewhere just looking at the scenery. They did a great job with visuals and the fight/battles are so satisfying, especially the one on one events. I wish there had been some bigger battles that included more people on both sides, like an open grasslands fight with like 200 on each side. Maybe that's a bit much but you get what i mean. There are of course some things here and there that could be improved but everything else you get to do makes up for it. I like game company's that actually give their customers what they want, a fun game to play!

Uma verdadeira obra-prima do entretenimento. Ambientação, combate e costumes japoneses bem explorados, referência histórica precisa mesmo não sendo uma representação fidedigna a todos os fatos. Boa dublagem em português do Brasil e com ótimas escolhas para áudio imersivo. Os pontos negativos são inúmeros bugs visuais e mecânicas já amplamente utilizadas em outras franquias. Se você espera algo focado em histórias sentimentalista ocidentais, não é algo recomendado ao seu gosto. Ghost of Tsushima foca nas escolhas entre o “Bushidō” ou o “Kuroudo” e suas respectivas consequências.


Story- 7/10 Combat- 10/10 Visuals- 9/10 Audio- 9/10 Art Style- 10/10 Value- 10/10 The story starts out a little slow but really pays off in the end. The structure is like AC Odyssey except it is much less grindy and the world is more exciting to explore. Graphics are good, especially the foliage. The art direction is on point. The best part of this game is the satisfying combat, it makes you feel like a real samurai. A great sendoff for the PS4 this among the best games on the console.

Ghost of Tsushima (from now on GoT) is a game set in feudal Japan during the first Mongol invasion of Tsushima island. It's a very cool game to play, but lacks some elements that would elevate it into being an outstanding game of its generation. Story/characters: The protagonist is Jin Sakai, a samurai with the duty to defend the island and its people from the invaders. Jin struggles between upholding the bushido code of honor and, well, adopting dis-honorable and shady techniques in order to fight the invaders. This internal conflict and the moral issues behind all this actually makes for some great character set up and potential growth, but alas it's never explored seriously. Actually the way Jin transitions into the Ghost is ridiculous at best, a ghost whose identity is known to everyone isn't a ghost. Jin's uncle (and father-like figure) Lord Shimura is so fixated with the code of honor it almost made me LOL. The antagonist is mongol chief Khotun Khan, a ruthless warrior with a strategic mind, but again the developers mess him up. That's actually GoT's one but big sin, the developers and writers set up some potentially cool characters and events but don't take them as far as they should, and the story lacks the impact of other games such as The Last of Us 1 and God of War. World/graphics: GoT is an open world game, with the most beautiful map and special effects I've seen to date in a game. Yes you'll see some low-polygon objects or NPCs here and there, but what the developers have achieved on PS4 is insane. The number of moving grass and lieves is on another level compared with Sucker Punch's inFamous Second Son and its particles. Riding on horseback and galloping through thousands of moving white-topped grass with the wind blowing over the field never gets old. The map is littered with a very high number of spots and beautiful vistas, ranging from villages and forts to shrines and hot springs, and more. Akin to old Assassin's Creed games there are a few temples you can reach by platforming. Other cool things the developers have implemented is the wind (which acts as a gentle waypoint when swiping upwards the Dualshock 4's touchpad) and the fox/golden bird (which if you follow they will guide you to a nearby shrine or something else). GoT evokes the atmosphere of feudal Japan like few other games, you can even select to play in Kurosawa mode, a black-and-white film filter and a tribute to the great japanese film-maker. But I have to say, the developers have overdone it with the collectibles and almost got as bad as an Ubisoft game (although it's not as ridiculous as AC Odyssey, not even close). Gameplay: GoT's focus is on combat, and the developers have 100% nailed it. Jin uses both a katana sword and bow, but also gadgets (kunai, smoke bomb, etc.) to give him an edge when facing multiple opponents. Gadgets can mask a bad sword combat system, but fear not, the sword combat system is great, you can verify it when dueling an opponent, where you can only fight the enemy with the sword, no gadgets allowed. I play the game on Hard difficulty and it's quite challenging, although it's not as tough to play as Dark Souls or Sekiro. However enemy AI is pretty dumb just like most other games, and consequently GoT doesn't compare favorably with Metal Gear or Hitman as a stealth game, even though you are supposed to also play stealthily as a Ghost. Sound/voice acting: GoT features a majestic OST with traditional japanese music. You can play the game with either english or japanese dialogues. Sound effects are of high quality. Overall: Ghost of Tsushima is a very cool game to play, especially if you are interested in Japanese history and tradition, but it falls a bit short of greatness due to an under-cooked story and set of characters, while also lacking an enemy AI worth of the challenge.
One of the best games I have pleated in years, I can’t even believe there’s a couple of negative reviews. This is also one of the most visually stunning games I have ever played! A must play and most likely will win game of the year!

Um excelente game da Sucker Punch, uma história baseada em eventos reais, com uma ambientação do Japão feudal perfeita e uma jogabilidade onde vc realmente se sente um samurai.
Impresionante! Espectacular. Emotiva! Un poema samurái! No duden en comprar este juego, vale cada centavo invertido. Y nunca hagan caso de las críticas de la prensa comprada.



Doesn't reinvent the wheel but takes what has already been done to new levels. Gorgeous graphics and awesome combat mechanics. Choose whatever play style you desire or mix it up. Sales wise its already destroyed spider man in Japan. This will become Sony's No. 1 Franchise.
Ambientación perfecta, gráficos apabullantes y preciosistas, gran sistema de combate adictivo. Buena historia y una banda sonora a la altura. Perfecto? No. Una compra perfecta? si por eso le doy un 10, el 9 se queda corto y el 10 le hace justicia.
Ghost of Tsushima leaves as the last exclusive for the Playstation 4 and does it with a bang. This game offers an absolute breathtaking journey with outstanding visuals, gameplay and story. Ghost of Tshusima is a strong contender for GOTY and one of the best games the Playstation 4 has offered.


Jogo viciante, antes da atualização estava ruim a iluminação e as texturas do cenário, depois melhorou bastante. História boa, combates muito legais e gráficos bonitos apesar do Downgrade visível. Como não tem nota 9,5 dou um 10.
My 4th game platiniumed on Playstation (that's how much I liked it :) ) I've been fed up with open-world games for a while (mostly thanks to the AC series). Ghost of Tsushima turned out to be a refreshment that restored my excitement to sandboxes, and I did all the activities and markers on the map with great pleasure. Mainly due to the solid gameplay (combat system, stealth and exploration is outstanding), breathtaking sceneries (the level design is artistic), and the plot which I was most concerned about, mainly due to some online reviews - turned out to be very good and kept me interested and excited til the end. Thanks to mentioned advantages, the level of immersion into the exploration of Tsushima island was incredible. I really recommend it! Loved every minute of it
As an east asian I think SP did a good job on the story, art and culture design on this game. Way too many side quests that do not augment Jin's character development (compared to RDR2, in which whatever side mission Arthur Morgan does actually makes his personality change clearer to the players - take chapter 6 as an example). The few large scale battles and infiltration missions are quite exciting. Overall this game got me interested and engaged throughout the game but not good enough for me to replay it (compared to Spiderman, or RDR)

If you are into story, this game is awesome. It is heart-wrenching and bittersweet. I've been a fan of Infamous: Second Son and the Tenchu series from Acquire and K2. Since Tenchu, I've been waiting for a game like it and happily received it with Ghost of Tsushima. I consider myself a casual gamer who also has ADHD and the gameplay has just the right amount of story, level of difficulty, intrigue and diversity in actions that kept me playing for at least 8 hours a day until I finished the game (furloughed worker due to covid). So yes, the game severely messed up my sleep habits but I don't regret it at all and enjoyed every minute of it. In fact, I wished the game was longer. I platinumed it and still wanted more.
Outstanding game, combat wise complex enough to be fulfilling but not frustrating, an open world with a size that it's not small nor too big to lose the fun, story wise with an interesting fictional take on historical events that are honored and treated with respect, besides having mechanics already used in several games fells unique, where it outstands the most it's visually not just graphically but especially on its art design and aesthetic and its relation and inspiration in Kurosawa movies.

Ghost of Tsushima is one of the best games I have played to date and will go down as one of the titans of the PS4 era. The second I got the game, I couldn't put it back down until I got the platinum trophy for getting 100% completion ten days later. Playing this game in Japanese and on hard-mode is the way to go for me, but you can luckily change both language and difficulty at any time. The music is fantastic. The story is consistent, epic, easily told, and let's just say that it got my tears flowing at certain parts. The upgrade system is flawless, the currencies make sense, the world is packed with content, and it feels alive. The sidequests can be indistinguishable from the main quests at times, and that's a good thing. I recommend this game to anyone who has an affinity towards Japanese culture, some good old samurai fighting, and to have a splendid time in a world outside our own.

This is a great game, combining elements from various games like Zelda: Breath of the Wild, Red Dead Redemption 2, and the Batman Arkham series. Side quests have their own stories a la Witcher 3 (not as refined as Witcher 3). Combat is fun and engaging, the world feels lived-in and is big without being overwhelming. Plenty of armors and outfits with color customization to make Jin look how you want him to. Us gamers haven't had many good Samurai games this console generation (even last console generation), and Ubisoft refuses to make the Assassin's Creed Japan fans have been asking for years. For that reason, I am so glad Sucker Punch brought us this beautiful game. I hope this game inspires and motivates other developers/publishers to make Samurai games (looking at you, Ubisoft).
I love this game! I love Japanese samurai folklore and I waited years for something like this. It did not disappoint. Beautiful visuals, awesome gameplay and riveting stories throughout. I wanted more content so badly, such as multiplayer, new game + or just another DLC to continue the story and now that I found out that a co-op DLC is coming out I cannot wait!
Game was great and I thoroughly enjoyed it but the gameplay after first half of the game just became very repetitive. Poor side missions and is the second thing that caught my attention but that's it. Other things like graphics, mechanics and the beautiful duels are the strong part of this game. For a moment I thought my HDD drive turned into SDD because the loading times were so quick. Strong 8 good job Sucker Punch, great game to end PS4 generation.

This has game of the year all over it!!! from the time you start to the time you cut down the khan is just so solid... Time to get down to the nitty gritty bits, yes most of the time you will be looking a vast open world, empty sometimes but i found that to be the calming parts because when combat comes they hit hard ( Also i wanna state i played the entire game on hard mode never switch HIGH RECOMMEND) with that being said the combat makes you feel so good after you learn the new moves to overcome any of the new foes they toss your way. parts that feel like drags (Hunting down fox dens, getting all the Hiku's, finding all the hidden shrines) but i didn't feel like it was to tasking if you did that as you pressed on with the story as you did the side stuff ( do not leave it all for end game YOU'LL get bored) but as i said there's only a few things i didn't like but it wasn't enough to make me stop playing the game. sucker punch did a great job as always.
My game of the year. A world full of life with great acting from the main cast. Combat, stealth gameplay are solid. Graphics are the best I have seen on the PS4. Co-op mode incoming. Thank you Sucker Punch!!
Un juego maravilloso. Muy cinematográfico con buenos personajes y tanto secundarias como principales muy bien construidas a nivel narrativo. El diseño de arte es impresionante y explorar tsushima es una delicia. El único pero, misiones más variadas a nivel mecánicas y jefes más variados también. Un estupendo cierre de generación.

Does nothing new besides introducing the wind as a mechanic to destroy the minimap. Everything else belongs to another games and feels annoying doing the same one time after another: killing mongols and chasing foxes. Also, there's 0 role playing potential, so you can't decide a **** besides ti buy or to not this game. Not bad, satisfying, but absolutely underwhelming. Play It of you have enough money, but don't invest on this having Assassins Creed: Oddisey, which basically is the same without japanese skins.
Absolutely phenomenal game the graphics in this game is outstanding the story is so great the combat is amazing I can play this game for hours and not get bored truly amazing


Ghost of Tsushima has been one of the most amazing experiences I've had in gaming! I've relived my trip to Japan, the biggest bucket list item of my life, all my childhood samurai and ninja stories, all the Kurosawa movies, all the docs I've seen, and all the books I've read. For 50+ hours, I was Jin Sakai, samurai, ninja, Ghost. There is no gaming experience that comes remotely close to capturing the beauty of the landscape, the culture, and the art of the Japanese. Another solid proof that games are not always about spectacular gameplay, though I did enjoy the options of this one (other examples of masterpieces without stellar gameplay: Witcher 3, Dark Souls 3, the Mass Effect series, many others). Back to many, many more screenshots (the Photo mode is one of the best ever made) and going for Platinum!


Beautiful story, graphics, and great characters. Sometimes I just stop and appreciate the landscape. Good combat, stealth and parkour. And now they even announced a free multiplayer dlc. GOTY for me without a doubt.
It’s ok. Don’t feel like it really brings anything new to this genre. It’s maybe a slightly better assassins creed. Some cool environments but overdone a bit. They found a cool way to use leaves and colors and put everything into that without much variety. I just couldn’t really get into the story or the gameplay that much.
Игра супер 10 из 10. Особенно интересен сюжет, он просто отличный. А графика просто бомба


For a new IP Sucker Punch have done really well, GOT isn’t without it’s little faults but ultimately they don’t take away from the experience which Sucker Punch has crafted, overall it’s a definite purchase and for people like me who love Samurai Mythology it’s a must buy.
No tengo palabras para describir este juego la forma en la que lo hicieron con tanto cariño y entusiamos, sinceramente es una obra de arte amo al ambientacion, el estilo de juego, sus graficos y su complejidad, sin duda yo recomiendo este juego en todo su esplendor mas aun si se viene su dlc gratis
First of all, from a person who actually play this game till I plat it, this is by far my best experience from a Sony exclusive since Bloodborne and God of War. Every aspect in GoT is shouting polish. This is the game that will set the standards for all open world games right now. It's like Sucker Punch just knows what annoys the heck out of people in other open world games and just streamline them. One-button jump into photo mode, controlling weather, time of day, even particles in photo mode( believe me you will be spending a lot of time in photo mode), one of the best intro from a video game ever, each part of the island lets you experience different seasons and scenery so you will not get bored of the scenery. Combat!!!! At first you will think the combat is simple, but when they throw in the stances and you realize how many ways you could kill your enemies and be creative. The combat design is to enable the players to feel powerful and to be creative. Sucker Punch, you bunch of genius!!!! I strongly recommend everyone who loves this game to go replay infamous series if you have the chance. I replayed all the infamous just to prepare for this game and this game just blew my mind how much Sucker Punch improved since second son. Also, CHOICES are important. Let the player make their own damn choice in the story is very crucial (unlike some other title). It's like Sucker Punch knows exactly what other players suffered one month ago with another title and let people enjoy a way better game in every aspect (writing, character development, combat, graphics, etc). And now to top it off, Sucker Punch announced a FREE MULTIPLAYER UPDATE. Free DLC add on has never been seen since Valve games. And yet all the xbox fanboys try to paint an "Anti-consumer" picture for Sony? Nice try! Also Naughty Dog cuts out multiplayer from the base game for TLOU2 to be a standalone. If you ask me, $60 is more justified for a full enjoyable single player experience for Ghost of Tsushima with icing on the cake when they add the multiplayer free content. Sucker Punch is just reading the minds of their players so well. YES, they actually listened to feedback, that's why the multiplayer is based on the mythology. Please Naughty Dog, we miss the old you, the one that does not push agenda and actually make a damn good complete single player+multiplayer experience. Even Sony knows how much of a better game is Ghost and release it as the finale of this generation.

The Ghost of Tsushima is a masterpiece of entertainment. It blends Red Dead 2, Assassin's Creed, Tomb Raider, and a splash of Zelda into one of the finest video game experiences I have had in 40 years of gaming. It is also the most beautiful game I've played. This game deserves credit for being what it is....an immersive, beautiful, expansive, lose yourself for days.....adventure. An absolute must play.

this is my game to say farewell to ps4, it was really beatifull, and amazing technically work, really nice story, lovely and strong characters, ambient, combat and everything in this game is really amazing and transport you to a mystical and fiere japan.
I don’t generally rate anything a 10, but this game was such a refreshing break and return to pure fun and beauty that I’m breaking my own rule here. 10 it is.

This game is amazing the whole atmosphere is great i struggled to see what they would add that further down the story but they constantly gave new enemies and environments
Great Game. Beautiful. Fun combat. Every situation can be approached with a different, diverse solution. Only thing it lacks for me is replayability, but I won't drop it from a 10 for that one weakness. Better than Sekiro in my opinion.
O melhor jogo de deste ano até o momento e também um dos melhores de toda geração. Boa história, side-quests no mesmo nível de Witcher 3 mas com um combate muito melhor. Enfim uma obra-prima em forma de jogo nota 10.

The perfect closing to the PS4 era with a game that really shows what the hardware can achieve. Solid story, enjoyable gameplay mechanics and the fact that a western company got praise from Japan says enough of the care and dedication the team put into this game. If this game does not get GOTY something is very wrong in the industry.

Great game, quite enjoyable for the most part and some kool weapons/skills & armour customisation.. However the combat does get a bit repetitive and becomes rather same old at times.. Overall it’s a solid experience though and worth buying.
This game pretty much has it all, great graphics, interesting story, an amazing fighting mechanic amd all tied into am epic backdrop. The only reason this game doesn't get 10 is due to the slight repetitive side quests and the final boss is not worthy of a game of this magnitude. Overall a must play if you like your openworld adventure. Well done sucker punch
I think It should be the Best Game of 2020... Combat system Is very funny.... Great story... The vaste map Is full of things to do it's a very funny game.... I personally enjoy a loro with this game
Loved it!! Nice graphics and very good gameplay and I loved the music, I liked how their historical representation was so accurate, nice combat system and the story well written and well-executed! TOTALLY WORTH IT
This game is simply a masterpiece. Imo this is the most beautiful and eye catching game I've ever seen. It's so artsy. The story is very well done and leaves you with a sense of understanding and accomplishment. This game is truly a 10 for me.
Ghost of Tsushima was a lot of fun. Although i found the story predictable and the game play cycle and open world repetitive. I enjoyed my experience. Hopefully with a sequel, the can polish up certain elements of the game. I would recommend playing this though.
