Great Gameplay - Gorgeous Landscape - Terrible Story The first Last of Us is still one of my favorites, so this game was a 7 year long wait. Technically, the game is no different than other Naughty Dog games. Every gameplay mechanic is improved and built upon. I found stealth to be more enjoyable. Every encounter is different. It is a semi-open linear world, so there are multiple paths you can take where you might or might not encounter certain enemies. NPC (unlike previous games) have names and react when one of their fellow mates get killed. The game is gruesome and violent but that is to be expected given the current state of the world in the Last of Us. It's also amazing what Naughty dog has achieved graphically on a PS4 Pro where the game is running on 1440p@30fps. Unfortunately, on the other hand, the story has left me with a lot to desire. The first few hours feel rushed and questionable, however, I thought this would lead to an ending not possible without taking this direction. However, the ending has to be one of the worst game endings of a AAA game in recent memory. Character-wise it makes no sense. I don't want to post any spoilers so I will say this. "It can't all be for nothing" would describe part I. "It was all for nothing" would describe part II.
One of the best games I ever played. Unlike some people who write reviews here and give it a 0, I actually played the game from start to finish. It does not **** on what they set up in the previous game, the story is an amazing and most logical continuation of the previous game. The gameplay is fun and improved feom the previous one. A masterpiece and GOTY
I am severely disappointed with Naughty Dog. The story is far worse than the last season of game of thrones. The gameplay is too similar to the original game. The political agenda is being hammered into the skull of the player, the characters were made to generate controversy not to be praised and loved like the original game did. I don't mind female lead games at all, but a game that makes all men seem like evil trash is offensive and insulting to the majority of players buying this game. Why could they not make this game like other female led games which have been respected by consumer and critics alike.


This game was a massive disappointment for me. No I'm not sexist or homophobic naughty dog, I just appreciate good games without a political agenda being shoved down my throat. The story is woefully poor and very slim to put it nicely. You need to get your revenge, GO ! Parts of the game dragged so much I was falling asleep and pretty much had to force myself through it. Especially towards the halfway point where were forced to repeat the same actions again with a different character... Lazy story telling. Characters are all 1 dimensional and killed off without any real development. Gameplay has barely changed since the first game and still feels as stiff and clunky as ever. And the ending was a downright embaressment that makes the whole game absolutely pointless. What a mess, the graphics were nice, that's my 1 piece of praise I'll give this game, but this is naughty dog, and expected at this point, so yeah.... Skip this one altogether, or grab on a cheap sale

Sadly gaming culture isn´t as reflected is it wants to be and can´t handle psychological ambivalence all that well. Storytelling in gaming hasn´t come very far. You find these kinds of narrative structures in arthouse cinema for decades. I think this game was in a way too progressive for it´s audience. Despite it being so easy to criticize game journalists and critics i think people miss to critique the problematic culture of gaming. Also i really love Joel but he is a fictional character, loss however is a real thing. As someone that has been dealing with loss a lot this game helped me cuz i was able to strongly identify with the feeling to chase relieve and try everything to get a loved one back through certain actions. I think many people out there hating this game don´t actually really understand it and the emotional ambivalence it deals with. In my opinion this game is a progressive masterpiece and the reason it is so controversial comes from the very fact that it’s too progressive for the very culture that consumes it. It will someday be remembered as being way ahead of its time!!!
Tecnically perfect, with a decent gameplay, the last of us 2 fails in the storyline making it tedious to end due to an overly forced plot that doesn't manage to deliver what it obviously intended to. Also the ending is flat, forced and shallow. It remains a good product but it fails in its main purpose, to deliver a good thrilling story and all of this after 40% of almost perfect story and gameplay. Its the greys anatomy of videogames :/
Dreadful drop off from first game. Story is terrible, writing and character motivations are juvenile. Such a huge disappointment compared to the masterpiece the first game was.
This game actually has superb gameplay In my opinion. It plays in a amazing world with a gorgeous atmosphere. BUT I can't give this more then a 3 because it is pandering so hard to sjw. I don't want a game studio to force their political views up on me. This has nothing to look for in games. That's the reason I won't give this game a 10 but a 3
A perfect specimen of art being corrupted by identity politics.This game is a tarpit of political pandering with disregard to its predacessor and its fans Also can y'all stop deleting reviews like mine??? I payed for this game and I demand you take my review!!!


This game is **** vile. We went from extremely good pacing, amazingly well written characters- to suddenly punishing those characters for decisions they made in the first game, just absolutely **** unnecessary. TLOU was the greatest game in the last decade for me. This **** actually hurts
Прошёл игру на максимальной сложности, заняло около 40 часов... да, я долгий. Были моменты в сюжете когда я сам готов был поставить игре около 6 и не больше, но пройдя её полностью я понимаю что это потрясающая игра. Она рвёт пуканы, что вполне может делать хороший сюжет. Он неоднозначный, он меняющийся, он заставляет вас смотреть на вещи которые вам неприятны под другим углом. Вообще моя оценка где-то 8.5-9, но я поднял до 10 только из-за неадекватов что налепили игре нули на старте.
Got a used copy and after playing through half-way through the game, it really is the dumpster fire that everyone says it is. Waste of money, hopefully i will fine someone stupid enough to resell it to.
First of all I want to say the game looks beautiful and the level design is impressive that is the only reason I'm giving the game any marks at all where the game falls short is the story the whole story contradicts itself it's full of plot holes I mean how can you kill hundreds of people in your way who were not directly involved in Killing the person your seeking revenge for but then not kill the person who is responsible for killing said person The game doesn't really offer anything new sure you get a jump button but it's practically useless you get a Dodge button which is a welcome addition The weapons don't feel powerful I mean at one point I shot an enemy point Blank with a bolt action rifle in the head and she just stumbled back not very realistic at all ,The controls felt so clumsy and aged When playing as abby I felt more powerful as her melee attacks offers some nice hand to hand combat where ellie with her Switchblade basically feels like a nail file and does little damage you can pick up better melee weapons for ellie but they usually break within 2 to 3 attacks it's like naughty dog wanted you to prefer playing as Abbey Even tho abbey felt better to play with While playing as her it felt wrong I felt like I had betrayed joel who Id come to love so much in the first game, is this what they wanted I dont know I cannot help but feel like this game would have been as good as the first if Neil druckmann wouldnt have destroyed the story I feel like he has lost touch with the fan base and gone too political Naughty dog was great when Amy Hennig was leading the way it's so sad to see a great game franchise fall this way
Its a sad day, As a major fan of The Last of Us... I had good hopes for the next instalment. The Last of Us franchise is dead to me. How can one of the best games of our time be turned into an utter dumpster fire? well the Last of Us 2 gives us a perfect example. I actually don't know whats worse, the shill media critics being paid/bribed to give good reviews or the review gagging. Stupid story, super diverse characters with no story or belonging. This games a hard miss. And as such, don't touch the game, not even if free...
Story Like a low budget Netflix series but the gameplay is so amazing , I don't think they will make 3rd part after this game I really need to sell my copy to buy ghot of tsushima
not diverse enough,too many white people, too many men, game too hard, wahmen die too easily, main character can die when you dont git gud, no microtransactions that let me git gud, game is too big for my hard drive had to delete some feminism videos and porn to get more harddrive space for this game
As a fan, that still playing the multiplayer, I cant imagine what was going through Naughty Dog's team mind when they decided to write this story. Awful writing, New characters are so unlikable. And Joel and éllie just dont act like the same characters from the original. Seems like bad acting. But its the writing, the directing. I dont know what to say, waited 7 years for this, and as they killed the Uncharted series, they just killed this beautiful story. I wish I could get my money back.

The Most disgusting game Story ever made.It's like a joke.Save your money guys and watch gameplay videos on youtube.


to all those reviewers who gave this BS a 10/10 you are destroying the gaming community just for your own benefit and relationship with the devs to get more review copies and fame. the Last Of Us 1 was a masterpiece this **** is a disaster 0/10. Good not that much but good RDR2 had better. story? 0/10. Character development? 0/10. Gameplay? same as in TLOU1 with a Jump button.
I admired the game maker's go for broke attitude in making something this aggressively unpleasant. On the other hand, it wasn't a lot of fun to play and I won't be revisiting it. Imagine Tomb Raider with all the fun drained out of it and with a rotten story piecing it all together and you get an idea of what this game is. Run from one level to the next solving puzzles, killing enemies and engaging in the occasional boss fight. Wash rinse and repeat.
Pros: Good graphics, visceral combat and open-ended level design. Cons: Terrible pacing, plot is a jumbled mess, unlikable and inconsistent characters, riddled with plot holes, one of the WORST endings I have ever seen in a video game and the game is generally not very fun. Overall, the game felt like a massive waste of time is DEFINITELY NOT a 10/10 as some corrupt gaming sites will have you believe. If your still interested, I would recommend waiting for the game to go on sale.
Literally just go play the game!! Gameplay alone is worth it, then add on the beautiful soundtrack, sound effects, and an amazing story! No reason this game should get the bad reviews it gets. People have to remember it is a game about survival not a Marvel/Disney production.
aburridísimo, quiero jugar un videojuego, no una película, dinero desperdiciado
The game is such a mess on many levels the game dosen't respect the middle eastern and muslim countries since they included LGBT content and naughty dog know it will get banned in these countries, although the the first part was played by a lot of middle eastern and muslim gamers.I think this was intentional since the vice prsident of naughty dog is isreali.
I've been a Naughty Dog Fan a Long time... so it saddens me to see this disheartening treatment of an established beloved franchise. Usually, when a developer makes a sequel... they do it to continue a well-received franchise and implement upgrades to gameplay / continue the ALREADY BELOVED STORY AND CHARACTERS. This game just seems like a story that derails most of the resemblance to the original. It seems to try and garner Violence points to cover this bad story up... with blood. RECOMMEND AGAINST!!
Just disappointing it took them 7 years to make this absurd political game just eww and don’t even make me talk about the story just put disappointment, only good thing is the graphics and gameplay, actually nvm the gameplay is low key boring it’s the same as the first game felt like I was playing a ps3 game gameplay was boring characters were boring and the story was trash. Ya I know I’m not giving the in depths of my thought process but I don’t think people care anymore and I’m just trying to be truthful just disappointment our disappointment
This game is simply looking amazing. That's all, I hope they realize how important the story writing is to us now!!!! I really didn't enjoy the story also WAY too long playing Abby made me lose the touch with the main character. Terrible ending.
вся игра одна большая левацкая повестка сюжет скучный неинтересный местами вызывают чувство омерзения 2 бала чисто за техническую часть она великолепна все остальное г.вно

The Last of Us 2 is one of, if not the best gaming experience I have ever had (sounds like an exaggeration but I really mean it). This game shook me to the core and left me emotionally wrecked by the time I completed the story; Naughty Dog has done a great job of getting the player invested in the game and its characters and has made a valiant effort in exploring parallel narratives that force you to empathise with both perspectives of the story so far. The gameplay, albeit very similar to the original game, has vastly improved in fluidity, animations, and does a great job of providing the player options to explore, take multiple routes, and discover the world around them in a much more natural manner (compared to the prequel). The combat is also an impressive step up from the first game; each encounter flawlessly creates an atmosphere of tension and fear that I haven't felt to such a degree in games I've played before. The stealth system has improved, the player has more freedom of movement, and weapon customizations and character upgrades allow you to choose which playstyle suits you best. Oh, and need I mention the graphics? But more about the story - as aforementioned I thoroughly enjoyed it, it does a great job at forcing the player to reflect on their decisions and look at the conflict from various perspectives. Without spoiling too much: halfway through the game, there is a somewhat sudden shift to a parallel narrative that was taking place throughout your playthrough up till that point. This part of the game is what is a turn off for many players, as they find the jump too jarring and out of place. Although I disagree, I do see where they're coming from and do acknowledge the slight pacing issues that are a consequence of this twist. There is also a certain fight sequence right before the epilogue of the game which didn't quite sit right with me, but I can't say much without spoiling the story. Overall, I think this game is nothing short of a masterpiece, and much like the prequel is a giant leap forward for storytelling in video games. The best advice I can give you is to go in with an open mind, and you'll certainly love it.
Esperei um pouco para dar a minha nota, pois queria ter minha propria experiência sem deixar pessoas com má intenção me influenciar. Hoje em dia temos que conviver com esse tipo de gamers, haters que querem apenas distruir algo que não podem jogar ou por não aceitarem diferenças. Estou na metade do jogo apesar de ter pefgo no lançamento, e posso dizer com convicção. É sem sombra de dúvidas um dos melhores jogos da minha vida. Tenho 32 anos e estou mais uma vez encantado com TLOU. O 1 foi espetacular, esse é tão bom quanto ou melhor. Como disse acima, estou apenas na metade pois não quero terminar, exploro cada canto e enrolo onde posso pois vou ficar chateado quando chegar ao fim do jogo. É sem sombra de dúvidas SENSACIONAL. A nota não poderia ser outra, dou 10!
I honestly do not understand the direction this game took at all. After Joel is killled and you are forced to play his killer I felt many things: disappointment, anger, disgust, betrayal, and sadness. It wasn’t just the fact that Joel was gone. It was that you are this character for half the game... and you have to beat the **** out of Ellie with this character... then so you are forced to feel anything positive for this character they force you to see the backstory of people you are killling as Ellie. The directors/writers trying to “teach” us that even the “villains” are human and maybe were created this way felt so disgusting... they could have created a new game with new characters for this wasted idea. This is upsetting me to the point I can’t even finish my point.. but trying to make people dislike characters we grew to love in the first game by way of a forced story isn’t a great, and will only make us hate you for it. It’s like if all the sudden we play a new uncharted game and we kill Nathan Drake then play as his killer... no one wants to do that. These devs literally crapped all over fans with this one. Won’t be buying the third.
tecnicamente e graficamente o jogo é perfeito, mas enquanto o gráfico chega ao excepcional o seu enredo chega a ser pífio, história mal elaborada e sem nexo.
This is truly not so good, not so bad, but very good,and very bad. The game is bizarre because of script.Not contents of books,but arrangement make mistakes. I don't like who forcing players to understand the story,nobody likes,so director lose the best weapon in TLOU: empathy. I could play TLOU again and again,for TLOU2…just once.And please,no part3
After playing and beating TLOU2 I came to the conclusion that I can never get excited for anything else again. Thinking that naughty dog was about to release an absolute banger I played it and my god that was 23 hours of pure misery. That ending has left the worst taste in my mouth far worse then Game of Thrones. Ellie was so unlikable in this game opposed to the last, Dani I think is one of the worst written characters in the history of fiction being told. Jesse was an awesome character whom they get rid of a little less then halfway through the game. I’m not gonna rag on Joel aside from the fact that him following into the church is almost a direct contradiction to everything Joel told Ellie in the first game. The only part of the entire story I liked was how they tied Abby into the fireflies and why she killed Joel (although I didn’t like her killing Joel) the next naughty dog game I will not preorder I’ll have to wait for it to come out before I consider purchasing one of their titles again. I really hoped some people enjoyed it but 3/5 of my friends who have beat the game have borderline hated the ending and the entire story. I thought people were overreacting to the games story before I had beat it but I’ve seriously never been so disappointed, crushed and sad in my entire life by a game being so utterly ridiculous.
naic game 9/10 gameplay veri gooooooooooooood
Killing Joel ? seriously guys ? It feels like Star Wars 7/8/9 . I dont understand the gaming journalists, but if the same that cannot do the tutorial of cuphead I understand much better. Please Naughty make a new IP sew we can forget whot you did here PLEASE. Also false advert for putting Joel Everywhere in the trailers.
+lvl disign +Gore +animations +Graphic's +Flashback's with Joel, but we not this story waited yeas. -horreble aim(not mine) -not much gun's and modifications -Ai like a Skyrim -logic and motivation characters -Elly killing machine but regret killing one woman WTF? -EBBY very boring and cliche character and 10+ hr so boring gameplay -unlimited ammo and cold weapon in gameplay catscene's -Feminism, Boys chill in camp's girls fighting... Well only pregnant women's so strong in game.
To the artists and programmers at Naughty Dog, congratulations! This is a truly an technical and artistic masterpiece! The gameplay, animations and the sounds were... mmm! However, the story is confusing and I feel like the writer/s focused more on subverting expectations. What made the first game special for me, they showed how a deep connection could come from two complete strangers and it felt real. In this game they throw in so much into the pot it creates a lot of weird plot holes and even after 30 hours I don't have a single character I really like. This game turned into kinda... The Walking Dead: The Game. Regardless of what history tells us about how people in war act usually kind and help each other, all main characters in this game are straight up **** But who knows, maybe you'll surprise me with Part 3 and...subvert my expectations, ba dum tss.
Great game. Loved it. But you are not ready for this conversation. Once you understand where stories are going to in video games, you'll look back at this game with other eyes. It is just such a ballsy story, so surprisingly different from spected and ambicious as well. The rest, is perfection.
Greatest game EVER! .. cant stop thinking about how charming this game is .. the level design is beyond description .. characters, emotions, plot, fighting mechanics etc .. everything is perfect ! .. this game BY FAR is the game of the generation ..

playing as Ellie for the first half of the game was amazing i liked the story a lot and liked the game play playing as Abby for the second half was not good i really didn't like her at all , you don't make her kill Joel and then you want me to like her? how the hell am i supposed to like her as a main character ? it felt like forcing me to like a character i didn't want to like killing Joel wasn't an issue for me expect it happened so early in the game , it was there , he had a past full of bad deeds he wasn't going to die peacefully in his sleep of course but killing him 2 hours in the game i really don't think it's a smart choice game play was amazing , graphics and soundtrack are amazing , story not so much what i expected after the first game such a letdown on the story side , i hope they can fix this with a DLC or anything else , i also hope they make a third part where they fix the story for the better , the ending wasn't the best , Ellie lost a lot and didn't get what she wanted , she lost Dina , she lost JJ she lost 2 fingers which means she wont be able to play guitar again the last thing that connected her to Joel , while Abby didn't lose as much as Ellie lost , they left the ending opened for a new part , which must be made as they cant leave the game with this ending , i really want to see a game detected for Ellie not anyone else just Ellie
Just a waste of money. Maybe it would be worth it for 15 dollars for such a short, insulting, and barely intuitive game. The fools thought they had any substance outside of Joel and Ellie's relationship, and there was a chance, but it just wasn't there. Just play the first one if you like the game play, cause this isn't worth playing for the story
I get why people hated this, I was one for about 60% of my playthrough yet 2 days post completion this game is on my mind 24/7. This is simply a story of what revenge can do to a person and how when faced with the worst situations imaginable and in our darkest moments, our ability to forgive is what can save us. I understand the story ND are trying to tell and forcing you to play as Abby, the character who brutally murders Joel in the first 2 hours of the game, for about 50% of the game initially is awful. I'm sure I'm not the only one who spent more time then is healthy walking Abby into infected and throwing her of ledges. What this does though is force you as the player to see how being consumed by a need for revenge can cost you. Ellie lost Jesse, Dina, JJ and her chance of a peaceful happy life in her pursuit of revenge and Abby lost Owen, Yara, Manny, her steady life and her dog in hers. All this stems from avenging their surrogate and actual fathers respectively and the way ND makes you see this from both perspectives in uncomfortable however a genius and bold move. I hated Abby after she killed Joel, i absolutely despised her yet in the final showdown I did not want to kill her. For those who say Abby lost nothing, im sorry but no. All her close companions are dead, unlike Ellies (Dina, Tommy and JJ are alive at the end) and where she and Lev ended up, i would not wish that on my worst enemy and that resort haunts me at the thought of the horrors that occurred there. Ellie showed little character growth until the very end but that was the perfect moment for her to realise, her killing Abby would not bring Joel back nor would it undo the horrors she has both faced and inflicted. She made a decision to let go and to finally give herself a chance to grow and to heal and I dont know where she will end up, but I'd like to think she is back in Jackson with JJ and Dina and happily letting Tommy think Abby is dead. This is not a pretty game but it never pretended to be in terms of story. It is bleak, it is uncomfortable and it forces you to ask and answer difficult questions. What other form of entertainment can do that for you? Pacing can be a bit of a mess at times and certain bits can drag out, you spend a lot of time questionning the point of it all and it can be glitchy in parts. I also absolutely bloody hated having to kill Alice, Abbys dog and in combat you will probably have to kill many more pooches which a lot of people will hate but in this world its kill or be killed. The graphics are stunning and the way your environment reacts to your presence reflect the attention to detail poured into this game. The flashback scenes are heartbreaking and poignant and serve a purpose as well as providing more insight into the events that occurred over the 4 year gap. Overall, play this game I urge you and come to your own conclusion. If you arent sure you want to drop this much money on a game you think you really really wont like, wait until it drops in price but it deserves to be experienced and doesn't deserve the hate it is getting elsewhere.
A spit in the face for every fan. The last of us was my favourite game of all time. I feel so sorry for the team at Naughty Dog. As a core game, the moment to moment game play, sound design, artistic direction, animators and CGI are all at an outstanding level. Completely let down by a horrific story with forced political agendas that long outstays its welcome after 12-15 hours. The want and desire to play this game dies at the half way point. It's fine to take risks, but don't insult my intelligence with that story.
I hated the story just begging it to end from the middle of the game. Force you to play half the game with the murderer making him try to justify his actions and try to force you to like the character, they tricked us in advertising, I give this note because the graphics are the best I've seen, also the gameplay is the best, but the story is horrible and desperate, it hurts to see this transformation of the game seen with the eyes of a true fan of the first part
First half of the game isn't bad at all, but once you have to play as Abby the game goes down hill. Her story is pointless and wish you could have finished the job as Ellie and avenged Joel, but nope they had to let her live for another sequel. Such a disappointment!
Great writing, never a dull moment. The game play varies between suspenseful stealth and real time panic masterfully, never unfair, always challenging. Extra kudos for great accessibility options, a landmark for the games industry.
Il peggior gioco con le aspettative più alte... Capisco tutto l'hype per il secondo capitolo ma per cosa? Una trama forzata e insensata per promuovere femminismo, trans e altra immondizia? Se si vuole essere gentili e si apprezza il gameplay è la grafica (l'unica cosa buona, direi che il gioco è da 6,ma se si guarda il gioco solo per la trama... Non merita più di 4... Povero Neil, e così spaventato dalle critiche che blocca meme, critiche, riguardanti il gioco, patetico... Poi ovviamente metacritic mette solo le recensioni dei recensori pagati per dare 10, invece quelli che gli danno 5,8 in meno non esistono, siete veramente patetici, 60 anzi, 70 euro per un gioco che non ti lascia niente, un vuoto unico... Non bisogna necessariamente giocarlo per capire che gioco è, basta vedere le prime due ore di gioco per capire quanto la scrittura sia ritardata è insensata, la tragedia forzatissima è insensata, contro sensi a non finire della protagonista e un finale per finire in bruttezza... Il gioco in generale dovrebbe essere da 4-6,spero che i fan boy ritardati sopratutto qui in Italia non si offenda perché scoprono che il loro gioco non è un capolavoro come pensano...

Well... add The Last Of Us to the 2020’s victim list. Technically speaking the game is really good, sound design, graphics, character model, etc... but we are playing The Last of Us right, not Dark Souls. TLOU story is sooooooo bad and boring, so generic, is imposible to care about these characters. And they killed their franchise character, who the **** does that?! And why?! That’s what happens when you watch to much Game of Thrones
I really enjoyed every second in the game game play and story as one of the best. ND kill it. doesn’t matter what ppl are saying because the game one of the best videogame u will play
A major letdown for the fans who fell in love with Joel and Ellie in the original game. Both characters and fans deserved better than this for the sequel. Gaming in general deserves better. Bummer...
Combat feels good, but becomes repetitive the ''upgrade system'' feels outdated and could have been solved a lot better in my opinion, Graphics are awsome for PS4 pro, but as a mainly PC gamer it has okay grafics, nothing to really impress, shadows feels weird sometimes and 30 fps in 2020 is okay for PS4 i guess. The story... oh boy... what a mess. It starts as a solid 9/10, becomes a 5/10 after like 2 hours in game. Then the most of the story is just making u want to speed run half the game which makes this thing become a 3/10, then after all that mess u get an ending and lets u think the overall rating on the story just isnt justified to be above 1/10. If a game forces u to play half the time as an absolutely unlikeable character u just want to see dead, it is some kind of torture and no not the good kind of torture like the Dark Souls series or Sekiro where the difficulty is so high that its kinda torture but its so satisfying when u progress. This is nowhere around in the last of us 2, u just feel empty and wanna quit cuz u are having 0 fun playing most parts of the games. I would go so far and say its the worst game i have played in the last 5 years and im reviewing this game only cuz im so disappointed and have been a fan of the last of us 1. No one can give me the time back i lost playing this game so here is my solid 1/10, i give it 1 point because u can actually play it and it didn't crash.
I’d give this game a 5. It is graphically the most beautiful game for the PS4. The gameplay is semi-fun. At least it is when you are exploring Seattle and the stealth is engaging but there lies the problem with the game. It is a story driven game. Its not open world and you have to abide by what the devs want for you. It’s a story driven game that tears down everything it built in the first game. And that’s not what makes the story bad. The story is so one note. None of the characters are likeable. A revenge plot should at least have likeable characters. And this game just doesn’t. Ellie is a bitter mess. Jesse has no personality. Abby’s love interest has no personality. Abby is just unlikeable. I actually get her killing Joel. But they should have saved that for midway through the game and not done it in such a “ooooo let’s shock the gamer by going walking dead upside Joel’s head”. It’s not creative. Idk who wrote the story as druckmans stories in the last have been fantastic but if it was him. Ouch. He created one of the worst stories in video game history. If he could’ve just made a more creative story this could be one of the best games of all time. But he didn’t. It’s like he didn’t even try. Sale this game and buy Tsushima. The critics know nothing. It is at least a 9/10.
Game has polished mechanics it's way better than the first title and it's really similar so if you liked the stealth in the first one you'll love in this sequence. Graphics are amazing, PS4 suffers to play this game (sounds like an airplane fan) but it really pays off, facial expressions are the best I've ever seen in a video game, beautiful post-apocalyptical destroyed scenarios, awesome effects. Sound and soundtrack are as great as they were in the first game, many of the game sounds still the same from the first one, like when enemies detect you for example. Soundtrack is beautiful, even though I don't think it's as memorable as the first game. Now for story, it's the reason I didn't give this game a 10. Besides all criticism over the game story, which some are correct and some don't, I actually liked the story they told us, I just didn't like the way it was told. Game has serious pacing issues, it relies on many, many flashbacks to tell a story, they use this storytelling method to a lot, and the problem is, the flashbacks are actually more interesting than what's happening on the present. I know that what's happening in the present has the weight of what happened on the flashbacks but those moments still look disconnected and it bothers me. My complains aside, game has a good story, but definitey not for everyone. Some people will really care and feel deeply connected to the characters some other people won't. Before embarking on this journey just know that you'll end it feeling worse than when you started, that's the game intention. The Last of Us Part 2 is a must PS4 title. One of the best experiences you can have in 2020.

the last of us 2 has a bad story good visual audio and gameplay new characaters are bad besides jesse and the the way they wrote his and joels death are terrible
The Las of Us is all about story and the deep characters similar as the all of naughty dog games. Unfortunately, poor writing and bad characters ruined this game. A huge potential was wasted for a man's delusional behaviours. Thanks to all the people who developed gameplay, animations and environment, they are perfect. Yet, story (the most significant part of this game) is worse than game of thrones s8.

This game really sucks, Poor Ellie you deserve a better luck and a better game, ends alone, no girlfriend, no family, no fingers. This game also should be called The Abbey of Us 2. I want my money Back!
Finished the whole game. Narrative and storytelling wise this game is atrocious. The scene cuts and flashbacks have no order and only hurts the player experience and adds confusion which is never resolved. If you enjoyed the first last of us game then be warned, the devs really made it their mission in this game to tear down everything we loved and enjoyed from the predecessor in hopes to "subvert expectations" but it backfired and is arguably worse Game of Thrones' 8th season. The narrative choices feel forced in a bad way, extremely edgy, genuinely confusing, and downright nonsensical at times. The major problem I have with this game is that the plot lines go nowhere and it doesn't even leave you on an ominous note. It feels as if you played and finished the game for nothing, since nothing is actually achieved. Gameplay wise, there's no standout generational improvements from the ps3 era and enemy mob entities are reused multiple times throughout the game; it feels like you're fighting the same 10 zombies and humans. The enemy AI is also terrible, you'll have no trouble getting through the game's most difficult areas which there are very few of since the enemies are unable to detect you behind the smallest of covers. Only positive I could think of is the voice acting and even that gets tiring since the majority of this game is just cutscenes and dialogue while walking from one point to another without any significant gameplay events occuring. 1/10 because they ruined such a loved franchise. SAVE YOUR MONEY Btw, don’t pay attention to the “95% good” critics. They just love money $$$.
I’m here to say 1 thing. THIS GAME IS A MASTERPIECE! Game of the generation. Story is amazing, characters are amazing, graphics are amazing, plot is amazing, combat is amazing. This game is a 10/10 masterpiece, which we probably won’t see again in the near future

Unfortunately a game that relies on narrative and story misses the mark completely. It’s hard to comprehend what made ND think this is what most people wanted. Horribly contrived and manipulative writing. The pacing becomes laughable at times and the 2nd half of the game will make most people just want to quit. I have never been more disappointed in a game in my life and I have been playing games for over 30 years. It tries so hard to be profound but just becomes ludicrous and stops making sense at times. I think it is worth playing but don’t expect anything in the caliber of the first game.
Graphics are great, sadly graphics don't make the game great. The story (which the original did great) is terrible. Gameplay is lacking heavily especially around stealth. What kind of game, motion captures and digitizes the lead designer for a sex scene??? Needless to say I got my money back
Never played the first game. I never felt a connection to any characters. Gameplay felt clunky and the ending totally sucked. What a waste of 60.00 I won't ever play it again.... Even if you have a new game + why would I want to that over again. In comparison to the last game I played; days gone, now that game was fun as hell also violent but the story was way better and made me care for deacon and Sarah...
El juego de por si la historia es buena pero no sobresale como la del 1 Los 10 son por la buena fluidez, jugabilidad,gráficos impresionantes para ser un juego de PS4 para una consola de hace 7 años!! Una locura
Sad that such a highly anticipated game, with graphics and environments out of this world butchered itself with such horrible writing. Some decisions taken qua the story left me absolutely speechless and mostly just disappointed.



Naughty Digs biggest shot and by FAR their biggest miss. The game plays almost the same as the first one because there are barely improvements given that the game was developed for 7 years. The story is incredibly bad with horrible writing and bad decisions after everything we did in the game after all the people we killed and after all the bad things abby did we just let her go?! wtf thats just stupid. Btw **** that sex scene it was so weird and bad. I guess after all that it in fact was all for nothing.
As nuanced and subtle as a brick. This is what happens when your starting point is your agenda, and then you build your story and characters around said agenda.
This game is a joke compared to the first, kill all beloved characters, leave us with garbage, and dont forget the troll director already say that fans will not like.. wat?
Dos cosas vengo a escribir, una más sencilla y otra no tanto. La banda Sonora deja que desear a pesar de que la guitarra es totalmente una locura y realmente te hace sentir como es tocar una guitarra, pero en el primero juego te acompaña durante todo el trayecto y se nota, mucho. Acá, no tanto. El tema más complicado y más obvio es que es duro que un personaje tan querido como lo es Joel se nos vaya así, o mejor dicho lo saquen así, es decir tan crudo. El juego no te da tiempo para llorar su pérdida para que te sientas con la necesidad de venganza. Avanzando y viendo el juego ves unos flashbacks que cierran un arco y un personaje de una manera sólida y en algunos casos devolviendo al jugador o espectador una posibilidad de desahogar sus sentimientos y el poder llorar como es apropiado su muerte. Al encarnar a Abby entendemos su punto y en algunos casos podes llegar a empatizar ya que conoces sus propósitos pero, realmente el final te deja a solo un botón de cumplir lo que queremos . El juego te hace sentir dentro, la trama, los personajes, la ambientación es increible pero realmente era muy dificil dejar a tu decisión la muerte de quien mato a uno de los personajes más queridos de TODA la saga PlayStation? Algunos empatizaron mucho con Abby, okey, no la mates si querés, pero otra gente (incluidos la mayoría) no lo hicimos, entonces el juego no te brinda la manera de desahogo, A PESAR de que el personaje de Abby me parece muy bien escrito, con objetivos muy claros y bien desarrollado, pero nada. Al fin y al cabo es un juego que sigue innovando y despierta muchísimas emociones y es algo realmente a valorar. Aunque esto último está desvalorizado en estos tiempos.
Excellent graphics, gameplay, ambience and soundtrack, but unfortunately the story of this game is such a bad joke, full of forced moments, conveniences and dialogues that make no sense, the game practically destroyed everything that was built in the first game , completely misrepresented the main characters of the first game to fit the rotten narrative, and that the end of everything had no meaning that they wanted to tell, characters like Tommy seem to have bipolarity, since it is completely different from the beginning to the end of the game. The game tries to force the player to empathize with characters without any charisma, making you play with a character that is already hateful since the beginning of the game, not to mention the horrible, disappointing and meaningless end of the game. Which was to be expected since a good part of the team that produced the first one, and even the director and one of the creators did not return to the sequel. That all added up, plus the swindle of Nauthy Dog, who has been cheating the games with interviews, and fake trailers, in which they replaced Joel of the past, and Jesse for the Skin of Joel of the present, leading fans to believe that the character would accompany Ellie on her journey, which does not happen in the final version. In summary: The Last of Us Part II is a disappointment, for those who were really fans of the first, and waited 7 years for a sequel to match.
Talking with heiters this game, you - stupid conservative bastards, where in this game lgbt, only few girl kiss, but here be traditional sex, its even don t close lgbt, Elli - lesbi, its just special part of game, she don t doing game worse of better, she just be how part of game
Flat out just a bad game, visually it looks good giving it one star but other than that theres so many better games out there, uninspired combat and a really god awful story. Embarrassing that this game just came out.
Womp womp. Its comes down to story, your a passanger in a narrative car crash with no control. Some people will like it, a lot more will hate it, Im the latter. Rental if you wanna experience this dissapointed for yourself. Even that would be a waste of money.

Never was a big fan of the first game but this one really doesn't do the characters any justice. The gameplay isn't bad but the story is horrible. They should have learned from GOT that subverting expectations isn't always a good thing. Also with the BS copyright strikes to youtube channels like Geeks and Gamers they deserve the criticism

I think This game is one of the most overrated games of all time. I don’t understand whats all the hype about & why critics gave it such A high Score
Where to even begin, allow me to resummon all the anger I have felt over the last few months since the first leaks. This game completely destroys the foundations of the first game and disrespects all of the characters that we loved. This game is about endless violence, a disturbing amount with no player choice in the matter. This game makes Joel and Tommy seem like brain dead morons that forgot they survived as hunters in this world, who just blindly trust a random group of strangers and leave their weapons in another room to get locked into a room completely surrounded and say, "oh well we live right over here, I'm Tommy and this is my brother Joel. WHAT YA'LL ACT LIKE YOU HEARD OF US!" completely out of character for them. Forcing a dumb early death that reaks of god awful poop tier writing. Druckmanns self insert character proceeds to spit on Joel's corpse much like he is spitting on the fan base. No sane fan of the first game will ever like this garbage. Naughty Dog and Druckmann have betrayed all of us. This is a revenge game WITHOUT REVENGE. That's right folks. At the end of it all Ellie has NOTHING and nobody left and decides to just let Abby go, after getting her fingers bitten off of course. This depressing game ends with her not even able to play the guitar anymore. JUST WHAT!!?? Who is this game even for Druck? IF YOU HAVE DEPRESSION DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME. 0/10 pure tumblr tier trash.

Graphics amazing, Story sucks, after 7 years of waiting and wanting a sequel to my favorite PS3 game of all time, I get this, and it destroys all my faith in ND :( They done Joel trashy, and made Abby a very unlikable person, and toward the end all the killing and death is for nothing, they destroy Ellie, and she is broken and loses everything and doesn't even get her revenge for Joel's death, they should have given you a choice to kill Abby or spare her, such crap! Yea i get it revenge is bad, but the first game and it's DLC was fun to play, this game is not!!!



Story is lazy and there is too much going on for you to care about all the new characters introduced. Gameplay mechanics didn’t evolve enough for a sequel that took 7 years. Graphics and polish were outstanding though.


Fans of the series waited 7 years for a follow-up to one of the greatest stories of gaming. Would the sequel develop on finding a cure? Exploring the roots of the virus? New adventures with both Joel and Ellie? F*** no.Let's kill a beloved MC for shock value, demand players to play a shallow character (joel saves her life and she just shotguns and golfs his head in) that no one gives two **** about, plot the entire game on revenge after revenge and in the end force our character to do exactly what most players dont want.Plus there is so many plotholes through it all,and most character's are like "Hey it's me this is my story"(and one in particular just exists to justify a pregnency, then dies like a **** dog) and then we never see them again. One thing, that i did like story-wise was the relationship of Ellie and Dina. It felt natural and believable.I enjoyed that.But it all falls apart on this mess of a story Gameplay is awesome, but the story ruins it all.(After all it's a narrative story) Also, Sony false advertised JOEL in the trailers. JOEL appeared on many parts of the trailers pointing that there would be an adventure with the duo, but they fking replaced it with Jessee.Also the flashbacks of TLOU were altered to comply with this story. A mess of a game. How low did naughty dog fell. Worse that this **** game is the "critics". How dare they all give 100's on this mess? I wouldn't accept the rumor that sony pays for reviews, but in this case...it's more than evident.
Good: - Graphics and music. Bad: - the characters - the story - disrespect towards both fans and characters. This game's story is going to be taught to future video games creators as how NOT to make a story. Pathetic storytelling.
The game starts with a cheap shot at anyone who ever cared. The writing is lazy. The characters have no depth but instead rely solely on their sexuality as if that is the only thing that is important about a person. Nothing new as far as game play goes. The graphics are the highlight. The game is dark for the sake of being dark and has nothing important to say. The first game was a masterpiece. I believe they fired or suppressed any real talent this team had for the first game and that is a shame. They will point to sales and claim a success but you won't get people back for a third trip after this. Any sequel was going to sell well after the first was such stellar piece of storytelling. This is a uninspired sequel that looked to cash in. It didn't have anything new to tell us or to show us and it forgot that it was the incredible bond of Joel and Ellie that endeared so many to the story....and then it punished you for caring in the first place.

This game is **** The graphics are amazing if not the best ever but the whole point of the game (the story is **** I'm so mad at naughty dog for destroying this game. The last of us is one of my favorite games ever and i think it's one of the best if not the best games ever. But what they did to this game destroys my heart.

Good graphics,good gameplay,good music,unacceptable story.If this game was named Revenge on zombieland,I would give it an 8/10.But because the game is named The last of us part 2,it gets a 0/10.This game has absolutely nothing to do with The last of us 2013 game.Nothing in its plot,characters or general idea has anything in common with the first part.All I have seen in this game is a cashgrab effort from Naughtydog,while deceiving all the fans of the game with lies before its release.Naughtydog and Druckman I will never buy a product from you ever again,you are a disgrace for the gaming community
The game is absolutely stunning, anxious, so dramatic and sad. It's perfect,- the main plot, gameplay, graphics etc. It has to be 10 out of 10, however.....guys.....you're telling such a story and trying to advertise all the LGBT+FEM+IDK....what's next?Don't get me wrong, it does not matter what orientation you have....but really...genders, transgenders, gay. Why do you have to put so many "characters" like that? It makes everyone doing facepalms all the time. That girl/guy(Scar)...omg. As of my point of view this game was about love, the cursed circle of violence, revenge, forgiveness somehow. All the LGBT+ guys, please tell them, that IT'S NOT NECESSARY TO MAKE ALL THE WORLD AROUND BEING GAY. We're all different!!!!
False advertisement, finished product was not what the trailer showed. Stopped after “The Death” scene in the beginning of the game! Worst game ever!

If this was a Movie people who did not enjoy it would just say, it’s too dark, it’s not for me, it’s too “out there” and detached from the familiar story structures they have come to be conditioned into. This is not for everyone, it’s not the walking dead or a Marvel movie, which I feel is what some people use as a base for character analysis. Making a game this different, that plays with your emotions and expectations constantly: Jesus, that’s a lot...can’t say I’dev done different...take it to the grave if I have to.
I waited 7 years for this? For Everything it does right, it goes out of its way to destroy itself. horrible dialogue and story, wasting characters and their potential, false advertising to trick players. Just ruined a once great franchise
This was a let down. This is absolutely not worth the price. The only good this game has to offer is the scenery and that's about it. The first one wasnt that bad either. When you wanna make a game woke maybe start it on a newer franchise. Dont ruin one that was currently doing well. Get woke go broke.
Average gameplay but the story is horendous. They ruined Joel's character, Ellie's actions are meaningless and overall the world feels empty. Kill 200 people including a pregnant woman to reach Abby only to let her go. Sure, who cares about all the other people eh?
The critics that scored this game should be ashamed. 20hr into the game and I’m really struggling to keep going. The characters mean nothing to me. The combat is boring and I am yet to see any a.i improvements to enemies. The skill tree seemed interesting but it never adds anything to gameplay. Looking back now naughty dog have always been well overrated. Uncharted games are fairly poor, start quite well and after 2hrs it’s just a battle of boredom to get to the end. TLOU was great but I guess given enough chances odds are one has to come out good

El claro ejemplo de cuando se te sube la fama a la cabeza... tlou fue un juego que no tenia mucha espectativa de ser un buen juego, y nos conquisto, ahora neil decidio meter un genero cinematografico con The Walking Dead (que el se considera fan) y salio este desastre... mucho motor grafico y poca historia... mal hecha, incosistente con respecto a lo que vimos en tlou y encima jugar la historia de la villana (para que?) sinceramente, que neil vaya buscando otro curro, al menos nos quedara uncharted ;)

I expected no less from Naughty Dog than a breathtaking experience, but i thought it would be a "happy one", and they went above and beyond, subverting all my expectations. The game is brutal, cruel, sad, it makes your heart shatter and that was AMAZING. This is one of the best games ever made. In addition to technical excellence, which requires no comments(best graphics and animations ever???), the game provides an emotional experience never seen before in a video game. TLoU2 is a masterpiece.
i have not played this game and i will never play it even if someone offered me this game for free , i watched some of my favorite streamers playing it and the story sucks , if you are a fan of the first game story than you will hate this one , the game start all fine and dandy , than a new character shows up and kills one of the main characters from the first game , than you are forced to play as this new character for the most of the game's story ! who thought this was a good Idea ???????
Fantastic game, surprisingly better than the 1st. Again it has great visuals, gameplay, story & characters. This game is definitely not for the vaint hearted. It's grim, sad, visceral, heartbreaking, but it has some light powerful moments too. Only negatives are I felt they could of added abit more gameplay variety to the already stellar gameplay mechanics. And also not being able to use your ai team member to shoot when you command, like the boy does on God of war. 10/10 Easily GOTY so far.
Good Graphics and Good Performance is equal to 3 stars. Only 1/4 of the story is 1 more star. The rest of the game is disgusting with poorly written story (3/4), Agendas, and the disgusting way Naughty Dog designed the female characters.
25 hours half of it is Abby a character they try to make you like it doesn't work and then they make you fight Ellie and kill dogs.. Oh and that one scene with Abby and Owen? Why?
It doesn’t follow along with the story and the characters don’t act like themselves from the first game and the gameplay is the same from the first game nothing new to show graphics is good 2/10
The last of us 2 is oozing with quality, such an incredible game, from animations, to combat to story is truly special. This game screams AAAA game quality.
Neil Druckman said the first game was about love and the second about hate. He was right cause I loved the first and hate the second. Game is garbage.

This game tries hard to kill the original game so it’s becomes an exploitation b-movie. Which I quite appreciate as a guilty pleasure, but movies are short, even the bad ones. This is almost 30 hours of repetitive and objectively boring gameplay just to show you an hour of a cutscenes. Positives: - graphics (there are real mirrors in the game, sick) - body parts are flying off and gore - sound design Negatives: - utterly boring gameplay - sluggish and clunky shooting because of a 3rd person perspective - the main plot is just dumb and exists for the sake of creators personal agenda - pandering to a wokesters - length
Where to begin? Last time I was this angry over a piece of entertainment was The Last Jedi and dare I say this is even worse? Joel and Ellie were the reason people love the first game. Their characters and their story was handled with love and care in the first game. This game not only butchers their relationship it completey throws it out the window in favor of this new Abby character. The marketing was deceptive and everything was in service of Abby. They might as well have killed Ellie when they killed Joel because this franchise is effectively dead now!
The game was fun, the story was ok, the fighting was fantastic and the horror was immense, let down by being slightly too long - the baby parts would have worked better if we JUST had her flashbacks, its worth a play, an overall great game but not as classic as the first one
Rip Joel and Abby doesn't exist in fact that game never been made it , i mean how is this even possible to destroyed something so beautiful as the last of us franchise , how insulting the the way they do Joel of out his own character weak and stupud hell knok part never happened .
In all my years of playing video games i honestly can’t remember a more boring and unexiteing way a company decides to kill a character off, and not just any character the main character and arguably one of the best characters in video game history. I could have thought of 10 more better ways to kill joel off. And then on top of that the campaign is boring and is missing elements that make you want to keep playing. I feel like i was robbed of $60 for not only a boring story but a short boring 30 hour story. I gave it a 2 because atleast the graphics look good but the story was awful and the gameplay was meh. I’m very sad that they ruined what easily could’ve been game of the year and could have been a all time great video game series
The design of the double-line protagonist brings a very unique experience. After the game ended, I fell into contemplation. The discussion of human nature shocked my heart.

If the game was a standalone and was not a part 2 to the amazing first one, I would have rated it higher. I really did not need a sequel, the last of us ended the story perfectly with a logical moral dilemma. Compared to the first game, this game excels in gameplay and graphics. However, that is not what made the first one such a huge success; it was the story that made it stand out. The story for this game is basically a golf club to the head for the previous game. It destroyed everything the previous one built up and took a massive **** on it. The concepts were cool, but the execution was dog****. VERY DISAPPOINTED.


The game is a spit in the face of those who enjoyed the first TLOU, the creator himself (Neil Druckmann) said that if they did their job right, people will hate the sequel. Also, the game shows SONY's hypocracy on the censoring of japanese games: A bit of cleavage showing in an anime styled game will be censored but they don't care about full on mocaped anal sex if it is from their flagship franchises (yeah TLOU 2 features that).
Una basura de juego, si lo puedes conseguir a 5 dólares o cambiarlo por algún FIFA lo recomiendo.

The good moments and sequences are few and far between but the rest of the story is poorly written, with many people acting out of character. Also, the pacing is very weak as there is a huge change in the middle that basically takes you back to the square 1. The gameplay is good but is pretty repetitive after a while.


This game is seriously one of the most disappointing games of this generaton. Not only is this a depressing game but I seriously dont even care for how much they try and make you empathize with a murderer childish character like abby was. To make matters worse the director and writers are saying F the haters to people who dislike the game. Real mature of you guys I hope sony fires these horrible people and replace them with people who can actually make a game like the first. Horrible sequel to a masterpiece that was the first. This game doesnt even compare. I hope naughty dog goes under 4 million sales dont mean a thing lets talk about the returns and how they refuse to refund
Amazing and incredible, from the beginning to the end. Game mechanics are the best in its genre, graphics are beyond anything we have seen in the generation, the story has been great, even though I understand there's people who may be pissed off taking into account the risks that ND has taken, but I strongly believe these work great. Everyone must able to play this game!


Ofcourse 10. If even xbox fanboys play this game, they'll cry. And f*** fan of playstation who have worm in thier trousers and say s*it about this unbelievable game
It is so poor written joel dies which made me mad and then now we have to play as abby which no one wants to and she gets ramed from behind like we dont wanna see that
this game is basically a torture porn soap opera. it's all about love triangles and melodramatic nonsense, extremely contrived with a badly constructed narrative, plot-armor all over the place, way too many forced coincidiences, even in pivotal events in the story. it rehashes all the boring old cliches we've seen a million times before and uses over the top gore and violence in order to come off as meaningful, but the story really has nothing to say. it's pseudo intellectual and pretentious. it's bad enough as it is, as a standalone game, but in context of how brilliant the first game was, this is a travesty. that's is why the technical aspects like graphics or music can not redeem this game at all. it's a real shame that all the hard work that went into it was a big waste of everyone's time. it's a perfect example of how NOT to do a sequel and treat your fans. one of the most beloved franchises in gaming is most likely dead, and that's why I give this a 0/10.

A beautiful game, fantastic tale, with a stun Gameplay, simply love it. Best game in History.
Great mechanics, but the storyline, is awful. Really disappointed of the story, I was expecting much more than it was. It is a vicious circle, the game focuses on the death of the doctor who Joel killed. But what about the death row that all the characters you play with leave behind them? Every person a character kills has/had a lif. So the premise of the game, in my opinion, it’s broken.
First, they lied to us, in the trailer on december 2019 they presented a history that joel would be part of it in theory, in the game the same scene, he is replaced by another character, for more representative stuff i believe The graphics in the game are fantastic!, for that i take my hat for naughty dog But the history is one of the most pointtles and meanles ever, that feeling that we have playing the first game seeing a history of love and forgivness is gone, it's like you are playing a side quest for teenager, and more representative stuff

Took my time to finish the game and I was disappointed with the story and the ending. Game play, graphics are very good 8/10. Story is a 2/10 and that is me being very generous. Killing off Joel is very disrespectful to the character and the players. I don't have a problem with having him die at some point but the way they did it was bad. If they just made last of us part 2 about Abby and Lev's relationship , I think the story would've been a lot better. They could've taken this game to so many directions, but they simply chose the wrong one. A major disappointment after waiting for 7 years. I would've gave this game a 1/10 if I was reviewing it based only on story. But I had "fun" with the gameplay, only. Jump scares and action was great...I don't think I would play a Last of Us part 3 if they decide to continue the story, Because I really don't have any connection with Abby and based on the ending, I don't care about Ellie as well. It was done poorly. RIP Joel...
The best graphics on ps4 era, and gameplay and combat is great , the visuals and landscape and lightnings little details are also great, but a big BUT the story.... The story is like, I want to refuse that part 2 is the sequel to the last of us , I love the last of us so much that I wish that I've never played the game ,what Neil Druckmann did to the last of us is unforgivable and sooo unfortunate it would be a great game if the story was just simple and not try to be creative in a really weird and crazy way , but the fact is the last of us part 2 is out officially and unfortunately the story is taking the worst path that a last of us fan would've never imagined! It's tragic
worst game i have ever played, you feel misserable the entire time, they disrespect the characters, and just try to make you the player feel bad for playing the game, dont make the same mistake i did, go buy ghost of tsushima, its awesome this game is not worth it, it looks pretty but the gameplay is the same as the last of us 1 and you dont get the amazing story to go with it, naughty dog is no longer a studio i trust with my money or time, if you enjoyed last of us for the story this game will only make you mad or disappoint you
Poor story, lots of plotholes, gameplay seems dated, the first one is way better in all aspects
Where the first game had heart, relatable emotions (both good and bad) and empathy, this one has hate, selfishness, narcissistic self-absorption and destructive anger - with most of it seeming bizarre and inexplicable. Where the first game had believable motivations for the characters and understandable logic to their decisions, this one just makes them bow before the grindingly, artificially enforced overarching narrative. It doesn't matter if it fits their character or makes sense, if it needs to be done to keep things grim then it'll happen. Make no mistake, these aren't characters so much as they are caricatures; they're really that distorted and cartoonish. The same goes for the way the plot unfolds; it doesn't matter if it seems contrived or far-fetched or if it seems incredibly improbable - if it allows an easy path to create further trouble, it's gonna happen whether it's convincing or not. It's like the author thinks the players are in their early teens, an odd thing considering the game is 18+ only. Honestly, the vast majority of people in this game are damaged goods. They don't want happiness nor do they seek any way to resolve their problems other than violence. They cannot even disagree when simply discussing things without insults and bitterness. Is it something in the water? I believe history teaches us that most people come together and put aside their differences in times of conflict, when the need for survival is greatest. In this post-apocalypse? People just double down and desire more suffering. It's crazy. More importantly though, it's lazy, shallow and I didn't find it in anyway convincing. So, the game supposedly wants me to feel emotions, it's supposed to be the main draw but I simply couldn't, not after the first 5 hours. Most of these people are hopeless, a lost cause. They're lemmings and all I could do was watch as they pointlessly flail about, fighting over each other to reach the cliff edge. Possibly the most laughable decision is to create a character that kills a beloved one from the first game and then force you to play as that character WITHOUT any backstory until later. I'm assuming they did that to try and get you to like/understand them but that's a colossal task that requires a skill waaaaay beyond the person who wrote this. It's a ridiculous thing to do. By the time I found out more, I already had gotten used to hating the character completely and simply didn't care. They should have made this whole game about them and then brought them into contact with the characters that we know in a third game. And the ending? Good grief. I'm guessing it was supposed to be thought provoking and meaningful but it was obvious that it was going to be one of the options they went for. The way it happens though is just bland and without any discernible motivation. There is no clue that I can see as to why Ellie would choose what she did, especially since she goes out of her way from an especially safe and comforting place, long after emotions would have died down, to get to that point. It's just another example of a character choosing to do something 'just because'. Presumably because the writer got lost in his own world and thought it MUST be an amazing idea but we've seen endings like this many times and done much better. Like I said before, do they not know that mature, older people might play this? The game has literally nothing new to say, no believable means of delivery and no convincing reason for the ending, despite the fact that their are at least 3-5 different outcomes that would have had more impact, especially if player choice was allowed. This game COULD have had me reeling from certain events, if I was actually a participant but I certainly didn't have the the ability to change/direct anything as the story is linear and involves no decision making or interesting choice/consequence systems - in a high budget game in 2020 no less.....:S Tehcnically (graphics and sound) the game is outstanding. The combat is fairly dated and nothing new, a 7/10. The skill trees are pointless. There's too much wandering about here and there and it spoils the pacing. The new monsters are mostly enjoyable. The last act is bloated. In case you didn't guess, I disliked the game. It's not canon to me. Just remember the first game and ignore this. Look it up on youtube if you're really curious.
Just do not enjoy playing this game. The graphics and gameplay is fun, but you just get knocked out of it by the god awful story. So much so, it's extremely hard to play through the entire game. Don't recommend.
Very great graphics, it's a real big next step in the gaming industry. But man did I dislike the story(no it's not about Ellie being gay or all the other gender stuff for all the SJW out there) The Story was a complete mess, the timeline was bad . The way they did Joel justice was horrible imo. The way they force you to play Abby was very annoying to me. Also the combat was just the same as part 1, which feels a bit outdated.it could have been so much more. The only reason it didn't get a lower grade was because the graphics were so good. And since it's a story driven game it a 3 for me
I love the first TLOU for its storyline. Sadly sience it was released much time has passed and leading developers like Amy Hennig and Bruce Straley (Uncharted Series) have leaved Naughty Dog. My Impression is that next to others, Neil Druckmann did not care about the expectations of the loyal fans for a second part at all. They come up with a very low revange story. The death of important caracters and detailed brutality against not clearly evil humans and animals (dogs)...everything feels like just there for creating some controversy. Next to this the graphical apperiance is beautiful. Didn't change the disappointment..
Spoiler Warning: Disappointing sequel to an amazing series. Wish i could somehow forget about it. Personally i was fine with all the LBTQ stuff but the main problem is that the developers forgets one of the main aspects that made Last Of Us 1 good and that was the relationship between Joel and Ellie. To kill of one of the fan favorite in such a way without even an honorable death and forcing the players to somehow like Abby and understand her intentions is honestly idiotic. And then the horrific ending to add on to it where the player plays through the entire game only find out that Ellie wont take revenge because of some dumb reason even though Abby bit 2 of her fingers off like jeez. The sequel is a disgrace to the Last of Us series and honestly i am really sad to say this considering how long i have been waiting for this.
I cant believe the bad writing on this game. Joel turned into a complete fool, a new character who they make you want to kill, and then no payoff and no revenge in the end, in this supposedly revenge story. Gameplay wise, it's exactly the same as the first game, nothing new here.
Writing is all over the place, you're forced to play as the Joel's killer for HALF the game. You're constantly smashing square, all you need to do smash square to: hit, slash, action, quick time event. Terrible game, misleading, and there is a horrible sex scene, which is unneeded, does nothing to move story forward. Hey guys. I seen better tampon fight in commercials than the actual ending. Abysmal, I rather see a dog lick his balls for six hours than play this caca-dookie game. Abby got bigger arms, because in the end of times, she can afford the protein shakes, the nutrition, and workout. GET WOKE - GET BROKE. This is a 10/10 game, specially with the pegging scene. How much lower can we get? BUY GHOST OF TSUSHIMA.

I am sad to see what they did this series becasue of their Politics woke bul#%@%$ why just dont focus on making a dam Game? They Try to make a deep and emotional game but they fail. Evrything that ame the Last of us 1 amazing was Gone here. One thing i must say is that the Gamplay was amazing and at least half of the game were you play as ellies was good... but then you get to play as Abby and all goo downhill fast. They try soo hard to make ellies looks bad and abby good and yet they even fail again and again. and the nerve to force you to play as Abby the killer of one of the most loved characther in gaming is mindblowing for me........


The story in this sequel was absolute garbage, pretty graphics and good combat though.

Games pretty good once I got past the part where the story took a 180 turn to where I wanted it to go. They really **** Joel’s character arc. And for what.


El juego tecnicamente es bueno pero en historia es muy malo 7 años esperando por las puras, la base de la historia se inicio con la muerte de Sarah, la inmunidad de ellie y su relación con Joel ese es un 60% de la base el otro 40 es el entorno en el q viven y los personajes secundarios pero en este segundo juego te cargas al inicio nauthy ese 60 porciento de base y te queda cuarenta q usaste mal, losiento pero para mí este juego jamás existió
Beautiful looking game with dated gameplay and a terrible story. For a single player story based game that is the most important part. It's written like a badly done fan fiction that thinks it's telling a deep story when in reality it's just a mess.





Disappointed, was hoping the story will be about my fav char getting into more action, but no, they decided to throw him away like nothing. Good gameplay, but still i can't enjoy it.

This game represents what is wrong with society now. Through force and spite an agenda is pushed and the agenda is despicable. The director of this game clearly hates fans of the old game, has a political agenda to ram down players' throats and has contempt for all. A manipulative game. Deleted.
The story is worthy of Bollywood. Pretty damn **** The first was a 9-10 this it's worse than a z-series movie. You complains about that and all the sudden you become an homophobic, great right? The devs are just a bunch of idiots.



Fantastic sequel, every bit as good as the first. I have no idea what game players who are giving poor reviews actually played, but it couldn't have been TLOU2. This is a must play without a doubt.
Добрый вечер всем. Трудно передать словами какое это разочарование. Грубо говоря в этой игре замечательно все, кроме слитого в ноль сюжета и что мне особенно было не приятно так это играть за эбби, какого черта меня заставили играть за это?. Первую часть проходил 3 раза останавливаясь на всех катсценах и скрытых диалогах Элли и Джоэла это было незабываемо и тут выходит вторая часть и вот бы оно долгожданное продолжение, но фанатам просто плюнули в лицо. Судя по оценкам ни один я такого мнения. Не понятно на что надеялись сценаристы заставляя нас играть за эбби (у меня это вызывало отвращение) пытаясь показать что она как-бы не плохой человек, но какого черта? Зачем этот левый персонаж? люди ждали эту игру что-бы поиграть за знакомых им героев которые нам полюбились, понаблюдать за их перепалками и развитием их отношений как отца и дочери так сказать=) Единственные не многие моменты в игре когда я залипал так это флэшбэки с Джоэлем. А про слитую концовку игры так тут вообще трудно что либо говорить, Элли всю игру пыталась отомстить, бросила всех и в финале просто слилась "вот это поворот" ИМХО нету в этом ни какой морали это просто слив! Как я улыбнулся когда в конце показали эбби, вот что значит когда перестаешь курсить, ну вы поняли о чем я=) Почему нельзя было сделать право выбора убивать эбби или нет? это хоть как-то бы сгладило впечатления от игры. А если бы еще можно было выбирать не играть за эбби то я бы простил многие косяки. Увы мы имеем то что имеем, нынешняя тенденция с толерантностью и трендами погубила сценаристов, это дошло до кино и вот теперь и до игр, всю игру прослеживался след новомодных веяний, типа бодипозитива и.т.д. поубивали большую часть мужских персонажей, я не простив ГГ девушки просто тут на столько все вычурно что аж подташнивает. Я тут многое не стал описывать а то не дай бог забанят, тут уже терли комментарии под этой игрой. В общем политиканству быть в играх. Графина на уровне, геймплэй нормально, нечего нового но эта игра не про это. Лучше бы вторая часть и вовсе не выходила это было невыносимо мерзко. Первая часть Last Of Us на всегда останется в моей библиотеке игр! А это постараюсь забыть как страшный сон. Все выше сказанное это мое субьективное мнение.


This is not the game we were waiting for, for 7 years. The graphics in this game is fantastic as expected, and the game-play and combat mechanics were good as it was with the first. The story telling in this game was horrible at best, which is filled with agenda, politics and narratives that have no place in this world that they have created. Being forced to watch beloved characters destroyed and then be forced to play as the destroyer for over 10 hours of the game while the creators try to force you to care for this hated character does not work! I personally did not feel any sympathy or anything other than hatred for this new character and just wanted the game-play to be over with. there are also many bugs in this game which at times make this game difficult to play. At the end of the day, a game is suppose to be more than just beautiful graphics. A game is suppose to be fun, and this game it not. People like myself, play games to get away from real world politics and narratives. A game is suppose to be immersive and a pleasure to play, while freeing your mind of all your real world problems. I see no point in a game that does the opposite.
Este juego en lo que se refiere a gameplay es excelente, sus mecanicas de combate son muy buenas los graficos muy buenos, lo que me ha parecido desepcionante es la historia en la cual Naughty dog a mi parecer tomo malas decisiones, tambien es muy brutal y cruel en exceso, te hace odiar a un personaje y luego debes jugar con el la 2da. mitad del juego eso no me parece acertado, pero a pesar de todo es un buen juego si obvia todo lo negativo.
The story is not very good. Accordingly, I can come up with other reasons to make the game just like that, except for the desire of developers to send their personal messages. Too few components of the game in this game and too much trash. And also the disgusting policy of the studio to promote the game. Oh shi~ here we go again.
What a disappointment! I can’t imagine Naughty Dog not knowing what made the 1st game so special. For me anyway it was the banter between Joe and Eli and it just being a awesome story with amazing characters. The first game has such heart and made it feel truly special. There’s a little of this at times in the last of us part 2 like the flash back at the museum. Otherwise all the TLOUP2 is, is a revenge story. A revenge story with a lot of far left propaganda shoehorned in which is not my idea of a good time. I could care less if someone is gay, LGBTQ or whatever to each their own. Most people could care less who someone screw all that matters is if you are a good person but when politics be it far left or far right are shoehorned into a game they will only destroy half of your Fanbase if you push them as hard as this game does. I will not be buying any more naughty dog games!
Contras: - La historia está llena de hoyos argumentales, clichés y un final predecible desde el capitulo 1. - Los personajes simples y sin carácter cosa que hace que no te puedes encariñar con ninguno. - Final sin sentido e incongruente con todo el desarrollo de la historia, todos esos meses y años siguiendo su venganza para dejarla escapar solo porque si. - Esos incómodos momentos en los que te "obligan" a jugar con Abby, un personaje que simplemente odias y te da igual su pasado, ya que todos tienen una historia triste en ese mundo post apocalíptico, no tiene nada de especial. - La IA sigue siendo igual de deficiente que en el primer juego En lineas generales, todo lo que hice bien tlou con su historia y personajes, lo arruinaron en esta segunda entrega Pros: - Gráficamente aprovecho todo el poder gráfico que pudo a la ps4. - La jugabilidad es casi idéntica a la del 1 y diría que es incluso mas fácil pero aun así sigue siendo entretenida. Bueno, pero se pudo haber aprovechado mas - Los perros y los enemigos gritando los nombres de sus amigos, como para intentar hacernos sentir mal fue una buena idea, pero mal implementada ya que después de la primera vez, llega a aburrir - La dimensión de los mapas a explorar que te hace pensar que tienes libertad de exploración, pero fue una mentira porque de todas formas debes explorar de forma lineal.


We gave TLOU1 a 10/10 because of story. We give TLOU Part 2 a 1/10 because of story. (It isn't even about the propaganda stuff. Just story telling/presenting issues and plot holes.) The gameplay is 99% identical to the first game which isn't even that good to begin with. There is no Part 2. Just finish TLOU1 and forget about this false advertising garbage. This should be called "The Last of Naught Dog" instead
This game it's not to be compared to the first installment. This one is it's own beast of a game. Naughty Dog have accomplished another excellent installment to add to their library of already awesome games.
The game is good in almost all aspects, but it is nowhere near the level of what naughty dogs have been offering for this generation. Gameplay is good because it is tremendously similar to the first game, in this aspect, the innovation has been quite poor, there are some new mechanics like that of crawling on the ground, but the confrontations are still quite repetitive. There are very few new enemies except the new acid zombies that are basically the same as in the first game but with another name and the enemies with dogs. Crafting materials are the same and, again, the items you make are the same as in part one (except for a small innovation such as the silencers for the 9mm), you even keep taking the same bricks and bottles to make noise. Let's go with the plot, one of the most important parts of the naughty dogs games. in my opinion this revenge story is pretty lazy. They wanted history to face a lot of problems in today's society such as homosexuality or sexism, but it does it very badly and messing it up with a shoehorn. Not because the 2 protagonists of the game are women, one of them a lesbian and the other a supergirl, but because they do not naturalize it, they make stupid references to it, all very forced. ignoring these sections, the story does not improve, in the end, it gives you the feeling that everything you've been through has been for nothing. I do not intend to make spoilers but it is not necessary, everything is very predictable. personally I would have opted for a new adventure of joel, tommy and ellie and I would not have incorporated these bad guys who in the end are not so bad. There are specific situations that I still don't understand, such as why Abby decides to betray her faction, which she owes a lot for helping two people she doesn't know about. again, the game tries to show you that abby isn't really that bad, but really? helping 2 strangers to the point of risking your life? Is this how you decide to show it to me? without a doubt the worst part of the game is the final, it doesn't even seem like it was planned. It seems that they introduced it to extend the game. seriously, the game could have ended in the theater with an epic final fight. Regarding the technical section, without a doubt, the best of the game, it is impressive, it really is incredible that it looks like this on a ps4. Probably the best game graphically speaking of the console generation.
I play the first last of us game and it was one of my favourite game of all time but this is disrespect to the fans who wait for long time to play the game the gameplay and graphics is out of this world but the story destroy everything Joel in the first game doesn't trust anyone and what happened in this game he gave his name to people he didn't even know for more then 5 min this is stupid and the ending is very bad so you kill thousands of people to let go of the one who kill Joel and kill Jesse and almost kill Tommy and Ellie gf i'm giving the game 7/10 only because of the gameplay but the story doesn't deserve even 1.
2 hour into the game, Joel will be killed brutally with a golf club in front of Ellie by Abby. Then they force you to play as Abby for 10 hours. You have no choice. Throughout the game, you will be forced to make cruel decisions and then guilted into thinking you are a terrible being. You then play as Ellie angry and wanting revenge. When you finally get into the final fight..you let Abby go. I wasted $60 buying this garbage. I should’ve listened and believed the leak. 0/10
Очень необычный проект по отношению к 1-ой части. Рекомендую попробовать данный продукт.
The great work of the developers, the game is insanely beautiful, but all this is completely destroyed by a stupid plot, stupid characters and an unnecessary LGBT message as if there are no other problems in this world. in general, a very very bad continuation, which should not have been well, or not Neil Drakman should have done it by someone more adequate and mature (with a brain). I do not advise people to play this disappointment of the year, even at a discount, pass by. Play the rules of the game like ghost of tsushima which is better than tlou 2 in almost everything.
I have been playing last of us 2 for 1 day and I am loving this masterpiece.Its gameplay is so immpresive and the story is very good and emotinal. Mechanics are great highly recommended game. **** haters are hating it because they read the story plot before month of the game launch Playstation players are not playing this masterpiece because they already know the story and Xbox and PC players are getting benefit of it and they are posting bad reviews about it because they cant play this masterpiece I am recommending dont think and buy it **** those haters
This game has some really great story beats, fantastic combat (as expected) and is a beautiful game. However, the experience is weighed down heavily by an unsatisfying ending and lessons about morality that fall flat.
Game has amazing graphics and music but the story is all over the place. You can't kill the main character in the first 2 hours of the game by a character we don't even know about, at least do it right. The different character transitions is awful. The only good part in the game is the flashback with joel and ellie. The ending is horrible. Waste of 25 hours I'll never get back.
The first Last of Us was by far one of the best stories ever told in a game... Part 2 has to be one of the worst. I eased through it and completed it. I gave it a chance. Through the bland pointless mind numbing repetitive less than lukewarm gameplay I pressed on. The beautiful landscapes and art work could only distract me for so long. There is no originality in this game in regards to the story..... there is NO actual story and any chance there could have been was destroyed. It is bits and pieces of actual nothingness just to reach an end that was extremely rushed and void of any actual work put into it. I will break the disc into tiny pieces lock it in a box, dig a deep dark hole throw it in, fill it with gas and light in on fire. When the fire is out, I will pour concrete in and top it off with a thin layer of dirt. Drastic you say,....I just would hate to be responsible for putting someone through the misery and time waste that I just went through. Jokes aside, Naughty Dog had an opportunity to do something beyond anything done before. Instead, they dropped a nuke on it so there would be no coming back.
Playing the game felt like the story was not thought out. Its like they had main points in mind and everything else is just there to connect those points. Nothing in the story seemed like they actually tried to work on other than to get the main point out. It is the biggest let down I had felt since starting to play story based games.
A perfect technology, old gameplay loops, bad pacing and a poorly written storyline that actively does everything in its power to make you really feel the full effects of ludonarrative dissonance (what you want to do vs what the game forces you to do vs what your character does in cutscenes). "Only winning move is not to play".
People giving this game an 8, 9 or 10...or a 0, 1 or 2...just aren't being honest and fair. Yes, I've played it. No, it's not close to a masterpiece, but it's a great game.. The graphics are superb, and there are some great gameplay improvements, but the story jumps back and forth way too much. Some character decisions at the beginning made make no sense based on the first game. And Naughty Dog's deceptive marketing was another big mistake. Why are clickers so easy to kill this time? I actually enjoy the switch to Abby in the middle of the game, because you get to use an entirely different style of play with her. However, the sexual themes, which were completely unnecessary and had nothing to do with the plot, made me drop my score even more.
This game is an emotional roller coaster bringing you through a cinematic masterpiece. DO NOT JUDGE THIS GAME IF YOU HAVENT PLAYED IT YOURSELF. If you happened to have the game spoiled for you this game is still full of surprises not to mention the journey to those points is far more important. Naughty Dogand the team did such a fantastic job. This game truly pushes the boundaries of story telling possible through video games. It's a must play and is truly fantastic. Naughty Dog sets out to tell you a story and one that you'll be talking about for years.

Graphics and mechanics are beautiful but story is bad! The game is soulless and boring without Joel.
Not the best game of all time and not the worst. Don’t trust the extreme reviews in both ways. The graphics and the gameplay is mostly on top of all ps4 games till now. The story is not bad and no masterpiece. To have full fun with the game you have to accept the feelings naughty dog punches you in your face. If you can’t accept the second story part and can’t get any connection to Abby (like me) prepare yourself for 12 hours of good standard shooter. When I had to rate the game to this point it would get 9/10 but after it and the last part of the game that feels a bit like filler I can’t give the game more than 5 points. Many story parts feel forced and don’t make sense. I totally respect the risky way naughty dog went with this game but I think it doesn’t work out. After a few days since completing the game I think it was a cool idea but they chose the wrong franchise and ruined some of the best characters in gaming history. I think it’s not fair to trash the scores but it’s also not fair to say the most bad reviews are from trans- and homophobic users. There are many reasonable critics which only critic the game itself and not its agenda.
Neil Druckmann in an attempt to create a straight to TV version of The Last of Us (2) has created something akin to GoT that may work for TV fans but will leave fans of the game series downright angry.... The gameplay is exactly like the first and violent till the end. That's along with the graphics is about all fans of this series will get out of it. The plot is woeful. The fact that you are forced to play Abby for half of the game, who we all know we hate now. The fact that Druckmann tries to force you understand the emotions of this newly introduced character cause he decided to kill of the one person that gave the original story depth. And there's the ending! I waited all that time for that! Yes another ruined series in the hope that they can garner new fans for the HBO series who had never played the game.

Videogame art at its best! This game has finally brought the gaming industry on the same level as any Hollywood blockbuster movie. In Fact, it surpasses.
Wow I waited 7 years for this?!? Utterly disappointed. I was able to stay away from all the leaks that came out and was able to play with an open mind but after playing this wow, just...wow. Graphics were awesome though.
Terrible game I can’t believe that they killed my favorite character and then made me play as the characters killer for half the game and then didn’t even give me the satisfaction of killing them at the end, the nerve of the devs for allowing this to happen and now I can’t even refund this terrible game. This game is bad don’t by it if you like the last of us
Лучшая игра в которую я когда либо играл. Столько разных эмоций ни одна игра у меня не вызывала! В игре понравилось всё, графика, анимации, боевая система, физика , особенно стекла, бегал разбивал только так. I Love u TLOU 2

Игра на тройку. Все хорошо но сюжет это пиздец... Это ребята пиздец , злые лесбиянки мать их .. я рот ебал, я столько ждал игру.. вот что значит когда простой сценарист становиться во главе всей студии... Они там так намудрили, игра полный провал.. Конечно спасибо за полный провал серии..
This is best game in this year!!! People play this game, you must understand this game, if you see spoilers about this game, do not be worry, just play this game, feel this game, feel character’s emotions, and I hope you will like this game.
Игра супер, политическая повестка - отстой. Очень жаль, что столь малая ложка дёгтя портит такую большую бочку прелестного мёда..

Nothing super new to gameplay so I just played this to get to some other titles releasing later on (Tsushima and Paper Mario). Story felt like a slog especially the second half (couldn’t get invested in the new characters at all). It felt like unnecessary padding added to the game at some points. Positives are that I liked the somewhat open world concept and city exploration as well as the very enjoyable, challenging, rewarding boss fight with the rat king.
Guys, let's be honest story is **** (not only because of Joel's death), motivation of Abby is clear and understandable, but the way how it was described -- is ****ty. what I think will be better for the story and it will make people less complain about this game Act 1: you play as Ellie for some time Act 2: you play for Abby for some time (and explaining why her dad was so important in more that 10 seconds of screen time) Act 3: Ellie figured out that Joel saved her and she's upset with that Act 4: Abby's flashbacks with father's death Act 5: Joel's death, but he should die like a hero, and not like idiot, who trusted random **** in a middle of nowhere. Following Acts: Ellie is trying to find Abby, Abby is running away Last Act: their fight, and player has options -- kill her and continue circle of revenge or no that's what players, who waited 7 years deserves. Gameplay itself is not that bad, it's not revolution, but it's cool. There is not so much LGBTQ+ propaganda, and that's okay, nobody is complaining about that. Abby could be more pretty, who wants to look on Schwarzenegger with vagina. so in general, it's 1/10 or 2/10 and that's only because I respect developers in Naughty Dog, because I'm developer too and I **** hate people who wrote the script.

Terrible. This is how you ruin games. I really don’t understand why the developers had decided to go with this rout. As a huge fan, all these years waiting, this was disappointing.
This game have not very good graphics, bad story, belittles white guys. if you want a normal gaming industry do not buy this game. It is very bad product
I payed for TLOU 2 for a good game like THOU1 and what did I get? A politically charged message. I have no idea how this game received a score of 96, except by shill game critics. This game is nothing but Garbage Characters what seems like a garbage story, Although it isn't a story, but a political message.. The Last of us 2 completely betrays reputation earned by the first game as well as deceives every customer into thinking they are purchasing a quality game and story such as the first There is nothing I can say here that has not already been discussed thoroughly online. After waiting 7 years, I could not be more disappointed. Sony should without fail fire Neil ****
Graphic good, gameplay good, story so much bad. Plot armors, ending unrealistic, forced to play as abby. Side charachters poorly written nust to die fast
What an awful way for a sequel i expected some kind of mess but oh boy was i not prepared to be constantly laughing on how bad everything about the story is hilarious tommy get shot in the head from point plank range for shock value but he shake it off stand back up to drive the plot forward then vanishes.
a great game . graphics are topnotch , and so is the gameplay... like many others , i did not had a problem with the story. in a way it was smart written , with the docter who joel killed in the 1st part. woud i personly changed some things in the story ? would i had joel longer in it ? yes . but the only problem i head with the game was , the long flashbacks. cause that interrupted the pas.. it was slow , with out action..
out of character **** writing. 20 hrs gameplay. 10 total hrs with the whuman who killed joel. wtf?
I really like the graphics and the gameplay but the story didn't make much sense when I got to the end of it, the story felt dry to me and I think Joels death could of been handled better in my opinion.
Просто потрясающая игра! Уверен, она станет игрой года! Финал очень сильный! Как всегда Дракман меня удивил!
Finished the game now, graphics and lighting make this one of the best looking games I have ever seen. Complex characters,with stellar cinematic and literary storytelling, with breathtaking results. A real masterpiece, thank you Naughty Dog!
Amazing graphics and animation with some tweaks to the combat that makes it more fun than the first game but i was the story really disappointed me but thats just my opinion
The graphics are amazing, sound is absolutely amazing. That's where it pretty much ends. The characters are empty soulless shells. The story is a massive plot hole with tons of plot holes in it. The wait was not worth it at all. Things are thrown in for the sake of being thrown in. Not sure who this game is for but it would look as if it's not for people who play games for great visual storytelling
Great graphics... that's it. Game play is repetitive and the story is lacklustre. The Game is not what it was advertised to be. Utterly disappointed. As a fan of part one, I was hoping for more. The agenda pushing did help the game either.


To clarify, I don't think most people care whatsoever about having gay and lesbian characters in games. That doesn't affect my rating at all. I'm rating this game low because the plot of this game and character development is garbage. While the graphics are beautiful and they did improve some of the game play mechanics, I didn't like Last of Us as a series for the gameplay. It was all about the characters and their adventure. They totally ruined that by killing off characters you care about. They make you dislike characters, then play as them. They kill off characters left and right where you literally like no one and don't have fun playing. The worst part is the ending. Wow. Such garbage. There is no payoff. Ellie is left as a shell of her former self.
4/10 -------- THIS IS NOT A perfect 10 / 10 like the stupid butt licking critics say. F right off.. this game is NOT a 10/10 it's NOT a 9 or 8 .. it's a 4! A 4/10 !!!!! Visually it looks good and music is ok.. but the story.. the god damn story is so **** Have to give it a 0 to balance out the stupid score that critics are giving it.
Игра просто супер, исклюзивы сони как всегда на высоте)))


the story is a **** rally,kill joel is a bad idea and final scenes is a **** and abby is still alive
Poor storyline ruined this game, killing Joel off is the first of the big mistakes this game made killing off the best character is just **** the entire games story was completely pointless you spend the entire game trying to kill Joel’s killer only to let her go in the end. I didn’t have a problem with the lesbian relationship, but the transgender character is a joke I think that your “gender identity” is the last thing you should be thinking about during a zombie apocalypse there are bigger problems to deal with. The only saving grace of this game was the visuals but the gameplay was the exact same as the first game just adding a few things, if they want to make another game they should make brand new characters and do it from the start of the apocalypse and get a new director telling the haters to **** off, no you **** off games are not about pushing a political agenda.

Okay this is not the worst game of all time. It is clear a lot of work has gone into the game. My disappointment stems from the high critic ratings, then shelling out good cash for a totally repetitive game. Sure the visuals are great, but the levels are so much larger (good thing), but then so much wasted space and you spend a lot of time wondering around with not a lot to do. What I liked: The visuals on this game are amazing, while good for myself the animations are out of sync. I did not like the gameplay controls, but a future patch could address the bugs. So far have only made it to around 8 hours of gameplay, before listing it on facebook to sell, as I could not get a refund. Too early to comment on the story, so far it wasn't bad, just meh. Ultimately it was the over realistic violence and boredom that led to this review. This title will appeal to many people, just not me. Very very disappointing.
Although the gameplay and visual aspects were improved from the previous game, the story did not surpass the first game. The way that Abby was introduced into the game was obviously meant to establish her as an antagonist since she killed off Joel so early on before we begin to become attached to her as a character. However, that is not the intended case as we play almost half of the game as Abby. This pivotal decision only served to divide the community as most players reached Abby's portion of the game with a unsavory sensation causing most players to not want to play as Abby. When I played as Abby, I felt a sense of emptiness as I wondered, "Why am I being forced to play as a character that I already have a negative feeling towards?" Her personal story with Lev and Yara also felt out-of-place since it was never properly explained to the audience and the other characters of why Abby is so willing to help them. The only explanation we receive is either a short "guilt" or "I don't know" to Yara or Lev. It just doesn't make enough sense to go through all that trouble just because of "guilt". Furthermore, the sex scene with Owen was just extremely unnecessary and should have been cut shorter as it just made viewers extremely uncomfortable and does not help advance the plot. Ellie felt incredibly driven for revenge solely Joel and no one else. When she hunted down Abby in Santa Barbara, it didn't feel like it was for crippling Tommy or killing Jessie, but was just for Joel. As a result, all it took was a flashback related to Joel to cause her to give up on killing Abby. This by itself also doesn't feel very authentic or realistic as it would probably take a mutual understanding between Ellie and Abby of why they killed who they killed. If a story-based game had only mediocre graphics with decent gameplay, it would score higher than a story-based game with perfect gameplay and amazing visuals but only somewhat average story. This game is not meant to be a stand alone game, it was meant to be a direct sequel to the previous game. This means the story has to relate and be created dependent on the player attachment to those characters in the previous game. Had this game released as a completely stand alone game without any knowledge of who Joel, Ellie, and Tommy are, then the game's story would 100% be much better. The purpose of a sequel is to top the previous work, otherwise there is no point in the sequel.
It's hard to give this game less than slightly above average due to it's technical accomplishments in nearly every department. From the voice acting and character models all the way down to the lamp on the table everything is masterfully done. The combat is good enough to carry you through a great story except there isn't a great story. This isn't the Witcher 3... you wont come out with fond memories and characters you'll love and cherish for all time. Instead you'll be frustrated about the direction characters take and hate all the characters involved. By the end you'll probably wonder why you wasted your time here with these terrible people. There won't be a 10 year anniversary video for The Last of Us 2 like the Witcher 3 got. You'll be ready to move on immediately to wash the taste out of your mouth. As time has gone on I only hate the game more and more. So much so that my original score of 6 makes me angry. I can't give technical accomplishments in graphics that much of an impact when my feelings are so negative to the game. Moving my score from mixed to negative.
I wonder if it was children that made this game who didn't know how to write anything or if it was made by people that think that having an agenda means that its the best game ever. Also why does Abby exist does she need to. Simple answer no she is the most uninteresting character since the spoon from skyrim. But at least ylwith time and effort the spoon can actually do something. Unlike Abby
El juego es una maravilla. A Ellie la mueve la venganza y eso lo convierte en un título más crudo, valiente y arriesgado que su primera parte. Mucho tiroteo, mucho buscar componentes de fabricación y cápsulas mágicas que te hacen mejorar como persona, como si fueran ensayos de Marx o discursos de Fidel. Tremendo juego, muy guapo y muy lineal que por un momento se confunden y te dan una miaja de margen.
I did everything I could to avoid the spoilers, and the very little that did catch my attention, I made a conscious decision to ignore it. I even told myself that there was no way they could be true. I blamed trolls for spreading fake news, and yet, I can't believe how wrong I was.... 4 hours in, and I had to face the music. Everything they said was true. The story was dreadful, bordering on idiotic and it was nothing like what I expected from Naughty Dog. This wasn't a game to enjoy, this was a disgusting set of circumstances that a bunch of terrible characters found themselves. At it's worst it's just murder/revenge porn. This is arguably the worst game of this generation, and yet... conversely the most beautiful. I'm not even sure what they were thinking. Just a huge wasted opportunity to create something truly iconic and memorable. Instead, all I have is regret at the fact that I wasted money. Money that I could have spent on something more worthwhile.
I can't even finish this game. They ruined the story, created a butch, unlikeable protaganist and I could go on and on. No one buys The Last of Us for the graphics & gameplay - it's for the STORY!! Naughty Dog really blew it on this one with their woke nonsense & trying to shock their fans. So much so, in fact, I doubt I'll buy another one of their games!! They have destroyed their fanbase!! What a bunch of idiots!! Don't believe the 9's & 10's. Only thing I can hope for is they will come out with a new Last of US 3 and say this one was all a dream that Ellie had!!
I'm a fan of the first part, but not this one. I played it til end and I have the right to not like it. If you liked it, I don't care. The STORY IS TRASH. NEIL DRUCKMANN is not a good director/writer at all. I'm sorry but that's the TRUTH. This game won't stand a chance winning GOTY or GOTG. I guarantee you all Fanboys of Kneel Drunkmann
7 años de espera para lanzarnos un final asi. Que falta de respeto por los fans y que falta de respeto por la primera parte. Un final coherente, para adultos y realista es mucho pedir???

Excelente jogo ótima gameplay, história com um nível que te prende do início ao fim, tudo que a produtora prometeu ela conseguiu entregar sem falar que está rodando liso no meu ps4 fat, movimentação,expressões faciais perfeita e campanha incrível super recomendo
The problem in this game is not in aggressive sjw or some story twists. In general, I agree with the main line and key events. But they are presented too plain, and you don't feel the impact, you are supposed to. Also, the game wants you to feel sorry for all the people you kill, but it doesn't give you a choice - so, you just feel angry at the game. You also feel it when the game makes you kill dogs in all the disgusting details, just to show you that Ellie is BAD. God, I hate this game for so many things.
This game may have a beautifull looking designs but this doesn't make a game great. This game is flawed in every area other than the way it looks the game play is not really that engaging or offers anything truly exciting if you have played any ps4 game you have played this one. The other big issue and listen I'm not just hating or upset about things that happen in the story I just feel as a whole it is exicuted poorly the character development feels forced and decisions made by characters aren't True to them or what you would expect from them after playing them. I truly feel this game was and is overhyped and after completing it just asking myself why was my time wasted because the experience amounted to nothing I suggest not buying it save your money wait for it to be discounted or borrow from a friend if you feel the need to play it.
The only good thing about this game is how it looks the rest is just overhyped this game is not worth 60 dollars and completing the game was a waste of my time that's why I give it a honest 1 rating sorry graphics alone doesn't make a great or entertaining game
I’m a fan of the original so the 6 is based on nostalgia and improvements to gameplay but the story makes the score form hitting the 7-10 range. The fact a sequel isn’t needed will also hurt the game a bit in my opinion, but let’s begin. I genuinely enjoyed exploring the city of Seattle, the notes left behind by survivors and flowing the clues to the next note till the end. Reminded me of Bethesda’s story telling through books and letters. I also enjoyed the story of Ellie but less so Abby’s story. After the disturbing way Naughty Dog (Druckmann) betrayed the fan base and killed Joel in a very contrived Brutal way (only for shock value) did playing Abby (Joel’s) killer make me just hate her, and being forced to play her and have Naughty Dog try and make her actions before and after work just falls flat. For the pros of the game, The graphics are beautiful, the melee combat is slightly improved the gore in amazing and being able to play in the world I loved from the original will always be fun. The cons, Joel dies in a unjustified way. The story is poorly written, mostly for Abby’s time in the story. Controversial topics being brought up like Lesbians (if for some reason people care) and transgenderism do seem thrown in at times for no actual reason and any attempts to go into those discussions are just mediocre at best and useless at worst. Overall 6 because.
Naughty dog managed to actually tarnish the good memories I had of part 1. Tragic. They couldn’t help themselves I guess... writing a terrible plot while pushing their identity politics nonsense. The disappointment is like a gut punch. The comparisons to The Last Jedi and GoT Season 8 are warranted. What a disaster for this franchise. It will never recover.
Game looks amazing graphic wise but the story just seems like a big middle finger to the fans of the original but is passed off as “art” and anyone who doesn’t like it is a bigot too many games bending the knee to push politics it’s too forced and doesn’t come off naturally all characters aren’t that likeable even the original ones sadly. Naughty dog has just added itself to the list off developers you can’t trust to pre order from for many I personally got a refund that’s going towards Ghost of Tsushima. Hopefully Cyberpunk 2077 can deliver a real masterpiece that deserves GOTY
This game is bad now before I start I’d like to say I have no problem with lbgtq in the game because apparently when I have criticisms I’m an incel or a “basement dwelling virgin” now for the actual review first the gameplay because that’s what matters in a game right welp not to naughty dog because it’s almost exactly the same as the first if you were to ask someone that gave this game a 10 what the biggest change to the gameplay was they would probably say going prone or jumping that’s not a good thing when it takes 7 years to make a game I expect the actual gameplay to be completely revamped not copy and pasted the ai felt even worse than the first especially friendlies which felt completely broken which leads me to saying how many bugs I found in this game my game crashed more times than I could count and random things that I couldn’t even comprehend were happening it really doesn’t show for 7 years worth of development time now it’s time to discuss the elephant in the room which is the story it’s even worse than I thought it would be I was told that with context the game would all make sense well the context makes it even worse I’m not going to get into spoilers but I have to warn that the characters in this game are all written horribly I couldn’t feel for any of the characters it’s like I wanted all of them to die and when main characters that are important to the story die they are just completely forgotten and never mentioned again and the characters you actually play as feel like they have plot armor they keep getting saved again and again and I’m sick of it and by the end I was just thinking “well what was the point of this whole thing” overall I say please don’t buy it and save for a game with more effort 3/10 if your extremely nice you’ll give it a 4
Не смейте ставить 0 другим играм , фаны своего дерьма, иначе вашу любимую игру до 0 снизим
Bought it, played it beginning to end.TLOU2 has one of the most bias left side of thinking stories I’ve ever seen in any type of media. The graphics and gameplay are amazing don’t get me wrong but no one bought this game for that reason. On top of this the one of the beloved main characters is killed off within 2 hours of gameplay just to rush and push the story along. Secondly the order and directing is so off you play multiple flash backs in the game I feel that it could of been a tolerable game if you started off with these and play through to the ending. In no regard is the game trash, but compared to TLOU it’s a **** show and was a huge middle finger to fans of the first
Very bad game the story is soo bad I can’t believe they killed Joel that way damn
Es un buen juego con un gameplay espectacular unos graficos hermosos todo esta bien excepto la historia q devio de ser estructurada de diferente manera para poder congeniar con la cooprotagonista Abby

I'm going to be conservative about the game. The Last of Us 2 is an average game at best and a 5 might be generous considering the hype they built up for it. I'm not going to be like other and rate this game a 0 out of 10 due to review bombing. There are till moments I have enjoyed, especially the early parts of the game set in Seattle I am very happy for. Ellie's rendition of "Take on Me" is one of the most visually compelling as well as musically beautiful cover of the song I've heard. Its beautiful and shows the bond between Ellie and her partner as well as her journey and emotions she feel. Also, the guitar moments are quite symbolic, its her remembrance of her father figure. To praise the game, they did get the visuals right, The Seattle area was quite well done as hasn't happened before in the game. It is quite refreshing to have a nice open area to explore. Would have been nice of Naughty Dogs to ad more of those areas in the game, but oh well. The facial expressions and emotions shown on the characters are also well done. Its goes to show that ND still cares a lot about a certain level of details for the characters. This is proven in the flashback sequences as well. One of my favorite moments in the game is from Ellie in the space capsule. Its full of childhood wonder and the idea that if civilization does go back to the way thing were, Ellie would like to pursue an Astronomical career. Or something like that. The scene shows that she still has dreams. It was done very well. Where the game went wrong are much more substantial in comparison to praise. The main problem of TLoU P2 is easily the pacing of the story. The first game offers a compelling story that feels like a journey and a bonding story between the main characters. The feels and journey just felt right all the way up to the ending, making the first game a masterpiece. In sequel, the story is similar to drinking a bitter coffee in one go and then you are left with just water. While I will praise how Joel's death did have an impact on my initial experience. It was a very sad moment. However, the rest of the journey felt predictable and just like any other revenge plot. I was left feeling like the story was padded out to support this instead of feeling like Ellie is going on a journey to find herself in this desolate world without her father figure. This was not helped by the game cutting out half way through to play as the antagonist Abby. While, I would say its different than the way other games approaches this concept. In this case, the decision was made poorly. To ask the player to play as the "bad guy", even if their back story is great is not the correct course the game should go. After gaming as Ellie for so many hours, just felt wrong to play as Abby, even if Abby has a similar back story as well. Ultimately, I felt dreading the experience and just wanted to soldier on, instead on wanting understand Abby's tale. On another note, Abby's side of the story was way too long compared to Ellie's story. It felt too stretched out and prolonging the inevitable. The inevitable climax was not what I expected either. Again the main problem is pacing. Having 2 "ultimate fights" to add more content in the game felt wrong and demoralizing. I my honest opinion, the game should've ended during the farmhouse segment. Instead, they decided to carry out the revenge plot. My question is why, and I'm left wondering when the game will end. On a gameplay perspective, the game has its moments. But overall, there are not as many wow moments that I'm looking forward to. Only the big Zombie glob Rat King boss fight was heart throbbing. The gameplay felt like the last game, just adding a little more to make it feel refreshing. Another issue that TLoU 2 suffers, are the characters. Compared to the last game, I much more than the main characters. Heck, for that matter, I don't know all that much about the main characters either, besides Ellie and Abby. There are not side content that explores their connection to the main characters, making me not care for them that much. This was done much better in TLoU by way of storytelling. Overall, I would give the game a 5 out of 10, even lower is possible due to minor nit picks. The visuals and character models as well as facial expressions technology was well done, making TLoU 2 one of the most visually stunning games on the PS4. However, the game does suffer through a poorly paced story that came to a high point too fast that results in a predictable and stretched out story just to make this game feel like a big experience. I feel that ND dropped the ball heavily and rushed the game due to corporate pressure as well as the leaks that happened to the game before it was launched. They wanted to get the game out while there is still hype. Sadly, That is where I stand with ND. I feel the developer once an incredible legacy fueled by creativity and imaginative team. Those days feel like its over however.
Graphics and gameplay were on point, albeit slightly repetitive but i enjoyed it. Sadly the story is not up to par with episode 1, the turning point of the plot (Joel's death) is poorly executed and leaves a bitter taste since it happens way in the start of the game. would have been better to leave it at the near end ... Gameplay & graphics 9/10 Story 1/10
The Last of Us Part 2,это просто шедевр, я не представляю сколько нужно было потратить время на туже графику,лес, трава просто поражают глас реалистичностью, дизайн локаций в не которых местах корявый! Анимация персонажей превосходна 9 баллов.
Abby ile zorla 10 saat oynatması ve ben bu saat içinde elliede aldığım zevkin anca yarısını alabilimiş olmam ve finalinde JOELi öldüren kişiyi bırakmamız yüzünden 8 veriyorum ama ilk 12 saat mükemmeldi ortamlar grafikler tam bir last of ustı birde son 2 saat ama aradaki 10 saat olmamış

O jogo é incrível, foi realmente uma experiência marcante a Naughty Dog consegui fazer o impossível, que foi melhorar o jogo em todos os aspectos em relação seu antecessor. O jogo traz uma ambientação totalmente sombria e misteriosa nas primeiras horas de Gameplay algo perturbador acontece na história deixando o jogador se perguntando o "por que" sem entender o que está acontecendo.A trilha sonora cumpriu muito bem seu papel no jogo deixando os momentos de tensão ainda mais intensos, momentos triste ainda mais triste e momentos felizes, simplesmente inesquecíveis. Em relação aos graficos surpreendetes um dos melhores do PlayStation 4, mesmo rodando a 30 fps sem quedas. The Last of us part 2 é o jogo modelo para todas as outras desenvolvedoras se inspirar.
Вообще не понравилось, скучнейший геймплей, такой себе сюжет, графика просто ужас, так это ещё и 4.500 рублей стоит! Если бы было можно, поставил бы -1
Sincerely, i am a very dependable game. I waited for years for this game and was totally disappointed on the direction the game took, totally losing the origins of what was the first game. Repetitive gameplay, but the only positive point is the graphics, so i wont give it a 0.
Cannot believe how much hate this game is getting. Get a grip. This game is amazing and I can honestly say its my favorite game of all time. Don't listen to all the negative reviews, just get this game and play it, you won't be disappointed
Gameplay was pretty much same as first one. Really hoped they would improve on it as gameplay wasn't particularly strong suit to begin with and didn't get any better with age. Game looks good and the audio was fine in my opinion. Story... Well it really didn't suit me. I played maybe 6-7 hours before I just quit the game which is the reflection on my score. If I can't bring myself to play/finish the game because it feels so bad I can't in good faith score it higher than 0 either. The game felt like slap to the face after having played the first part. All I can ask is WTF was the studio thinking when they wrote this story.
The original was fantastic. This game has decided to focus its story around a social agenda. You play a man (trans) for part of it. Not just any man, but the one that kills Joel, the main character from the first game. It feels like they copied Walking Dead here. The worst part of all is the gay sex scene. How can this be in a video game?

Only a few hours into the game and already disappointed at how laughably bad the writing is in this game. Not to mention the trailer literally teases the audience that Joel is a major part of the game. Nope. Dead in the first hour. I just want to forget this game.
Game play is pretty standard by now, graphics are decent. Atrocious writing, it is possible to explore ideas that are not typically covered in gaming without being this on the nose and obnoxious. In terms of the plot, the writers knew where they wanted to start and finish, but that's about it.
Absolut 100% garbage, it has absolutly nothing to do with the first story, the fact that Elli is Elli, a imune is more or less trivial and the only connection it has to the first game is the world and Elli and Joel, wich btw are completly different People, Joel isnt even in the game very much and Elli is not the same Elli, they just took the names to sell som sjw garbage. First game and that story is super trivial and means nothing, wich is funny seeing the game got praised for its **** story. Gameplay is medioker,, only Good things is the graphic
A copy and paste game. The mechanics are the same as previous title. Only difference is the location and the characters. Story wise, it is a terrible script. Character design, developers shouldn’t let Anita influence the type of design on a character as per example: Abby. Not a good design. Also, I pity the animator who have to animate that explicit scene. I wish it was deleted from my memory.
another ideologically driven story to deliberately destroy a established franchise thank god there's still Japanese games & studios that isn't part of this cult
I'm writing this after a long cooldown and had time to really think about the game. While Naughty Dog and Neil Druckmann revel in their 10/10 reviews, reality is that this game is just bad. Its not art, its nothing profound, its a game with a poorly written story and pacing issues. On a technical aspect the game is great, you can really tell how much hard and skillful work went into making it. Combat and animations are as smooth as ever, and graphics are beautiful. Thats where it ends, the game is split into two phases, 1 with Ellie, 1 with Abby, Upgrades, weapons, supplements, all get a feeling of worthlessness because of how the game is split. Why bother gathering things when you can only use them in one half of the game. In phase 2, you are forced to play as Abby, a character that most people who played the first game, will hate. You are then exposed to cheap repeated attempts to make you sympathize with Abby like petting dogs and messing around with your teenage love interest. The attempts at trying to make you see her side and sympathize come across as cheap, manipulative, and unwelcome. Naughty Dog should try the same on the hundreds of people Joel, Ellie, and Abby have killed. That's alot of dogs to pet. In the end, you are left heartbroken, resentful, unsatisfied, and disappointed.
I Loved the first game the visuals are great, the graphics look nice but the main part of the game the story has been sacrificed for a awful boring story with bad pacing. Gameplay itself felt boring and didn't have anything special to it. The story is the main part and its butchered Its a do not buy from me!

The Last of Us Part II is a huge improvement all around. The visuals, sound design, accessibility, and gameplay all surpasses the original. Character movement is far more active and flexible, making combat so much fun. Exploration isn’t as linear and has more vertical levels, allowing players more freedom to experiment each encounter. Most people aren’t mad about the gameplay though, they’re upset about the story. Without any spoilers all I can say is the Last of Us 2 is an unapologetic game that ask players to be open-minded about its themes and characters. The pacing isn’t as straight forward as the previous title, but the story’s theme and characters are more interesting. It was fun seeing how much the world has changed since the first game. It’ll will make you angry and sad, but that’s kind of the point. Even if you’re not a fan of the story, the gameplay is still awesome.

Gameplay mechanics are great - enemies behave so naturally! Graphics is absolutely awesome for currentGen! But please, stop pushing this SJW propaganda everywhere. I'm from Russia, I don't event want to know your political preferences, I just wanna explore post apocalyptic world, not all this sh*t. So, only 2 for now because of propaganda...
A good sequel, a Graphics powerhouse, an adult and topical story and characters. Really good game, but I don't see me going though the game more than once in my life.

This game is an Absolute Disgrace to any REAL fans of the First game. I will admit that the graphics and gameplay are top notch, but in a Story Driven Game it falls flat on its Face. The story is completely unbelievable, involving Several Plot holes that doesn’t make any sense. it doesn’t Do Justice as a Sequel to quite possibly the Greatest Game ever Made. I am so disappointed and I feel like I’ve wasted my money on this.


Played for an hour, saw an important character die, immediately uninstalled and refunded, also took me 4 days to make this review because metacritic put a timeout timer on negative reviews
One could argue that Game of Thrones Season 9 or Star Wars the last Jedi did it firs but no one mastered the art of taking a dump in your characters until the Last of Us 2 appeared. This is the prime example of how a story and the characters make up a game, no matter how pretty the game looks if its impossible to play like this game is even in the first 2 hours, but what really makes you stop playing and regret the $60 spent is when around the halfway through the story the game forces you to throw all the good experiences of the first game out the window and start doing things against your will. I refuse to take part and enable games to become political agendas.
Great visual design but the story is totally ruined compared to Part I. I don’t know what happened to the director of naughty dog, this game does not deserve the seven years’ waiting by the Part I’s fan.
In a world without Part 1 it's a solid 10. But this story… I don't know, I can't say it's perfect. Even at Ghost of Tsushima revenge story is better than here. But everything else is great. Visual part (not good in the beginning, but starts to shine later on), music, a lot of tiny details makes this game one of the best at this generation. But again, not perfect

Jogo muito bom, superou minhas expectativas. Caixistas em colapso tentando diminuir a nota do jogo, toscos.
Pros Easy platinum Graphics and details Cons History, ND forced so hard to make plot twists and to mark as a impressive history, but it went all wrong, maybe they stayed at Eugenie "garden" in game development... Abby wins and Ellie just lose everything that's it! The game resumes in this phrase.. Joel not the same as the first game and he dies in the most dumbest way in a post apocalyptic world where you made so many enemies that you just tell your name for anyone... Just played and sold the game, not worth keeping it
A solid 6 but not much more. Always pay attention to gamer scores not critic scores. Critics are just using this a sjw platform and hiding the fact it has terrible gameplay and a nauseating storyline. Technically it’s solid, thus the 6, but it’s not a masterpiece and nothing memorable like Ghost of Tsushima is. The critic reviews are inflated by about 30 points of woke points. Knock off 30 and you have a legit number. Good luck trying to stay awake playing this and not losing lunch after getting kicked in the danglers with social justice messaging for the 5000000 time while playing.
Simply... Game Of The Year! The last of us part II is a complex of hate, revenge and the complete opposite which is love, forgiveness and letting go. You can hate it as much as you want like it or not, it’s a masterpiece.
Really loved the first one. I know the graphics, gameplay and combat are really good here. But the story is much important to me. The part two was a total let down it was miles away compared to the first one.. Sorry.
I genuinely promise I played this game the whole way through and even waited a week to post this... It sucks. No way around it. The gameplay is awesome, but the story is weak. Not because of the leaks everyone saw, but because everything else there, is just bad writing. The characters are not relatable to most, and their personalities are bland. It felt like they just put variety in it for the sake of doing it. I completely understand representation and support it, but these characters were poorly designed even by that standard. Do yourself a favor and go buy something better.
Eu não entendi qual foi a piada que fizeram nesse jogo, porque ele não pode ser levado a sério, me arrependo de ter comprado isso, jogo pura lacração um lixo comparado com primeiro.
Don't like how fans was deceived by the trailers into thinking Joel and Ellie was on another adventure together
So disappointing that even pewdiepie couldn't stand it while playing it live. Zero because I can't give it -10 out of 10. Not to mention naughty dog's outrageous behavior trying to silence people all over the internet for having an opinion. Garbage.

he Last of Us Part 2 shows us one thing, that the video games industry (unlike Cinema which is moving forward at a much slower pace) has a lot more unexplored potential. Part 2 raised the standards of video games so much, and in almost every respect, including gameplay :D

The Last of Us Part 2 is an excellent game but the story is really quite disappointing. Great gameplay, great graphics, thats all.

The story is weaker than the first one, killing Joel was a cheap move and then playing as Abby was just weird. The game was unnecessary long, it could've ended in the middle and it would be better. The gameplay itself is stuck in 2013. It's not a bad game but it's no masterpiece either.
Sony and Naughty Dog have soiled themselves and expect the fanbase to accept an inferior interactive movie designed to appeal to a fringe audience. Shame on the degenerates at Sony and Naughty Dog! They will have lost millions in sales and alienated many who will not swallow their high resolution and detailed gay revenge fantasy with no payoff. Terrible story telling
I don't know how I feel about the game it was good gameplay wise but the story was pretty rough it makes no sense but trying to look at it different ways kinda helps but again still mix feelings first game 100 times better
this game is such a masterpiece . the story the environment the chars everything is just 10/10 100% goty.
TLDR: Mechanically, it is a blast to play through and if you enjoyed how the first one played, you will enjoy this one. It adds some new tricks to the formula but nothing groundbreaking. Visually, it's a stunning experience that we expect from ND (great for photo mode). Narratively, it is quite the ride, though certainly not without it's issues as it can fall flat at times. Overall, it is a pretty good follow-up and definitely worth playing. Game play: The additional space it gives you to roam around and explore at times is both a boon and a detriment to itself. With (some of) the spaces as large as they are, it tends to mess with the pacing of the narrative (a bit more on this later) and can start to feel tiresome if you are the kind that likes to explore every nook and cranny in these kinds of games. Each space though, does feel unique and interesting enough to warrant exploration. The combat, again, is more of the same but the kills feel more brutal albeit a bit comical at times (death screams/dialogue). There are a few new weapons to play with later in the game that are fun alternatives to the usual but don't necessarily break the mold. There are also some new enemies. The new infected are a fine addition while the new human enemies do not necessarily bring much to the table in terms of surprises but do require paying attention. Neither one feels so different though, that you won't be able to take them on. The AI is more competent, generally speaking, this time around. Though there are some instances of the usual issues that were present in the previous title. To iterate, companions you have during certain parts are more useful than before. However, enemies seem to be oblivious to their presence at times as they stand or run out in the open which can break the immersion. On the flip side of that coin, enemies can at times feel a little too observant making stealth difficult (though this can be adjusted in options). If you are not playing through guns-blazing (or adjusting difficulty), you will likely find yourself waiting a lot for an opportunity to move that doesn't ever seem to present itself without resorting to just going full-on Rambo. Enemies in this installment also have better aim and at times can start to feel like you are going up against battalions of world-class marksmen with straight-from-the-factory weapons and not post-civilization groups of regular joes with scavenged/well-used ones. Accessibility options for those that need or want them are well done. There is also the inclusion of difficulty sliders for various aspects of game play (resources, player damage, enemy damage, and more) which allows you to tailor the game to how you want to play. Graphics: Visually, the game is beautifully crafted. All the minor details in textures, lighting, and level/character design make it feel alive and makes the photo mode a pleasant tool to play with. The animations are crisp and realistic. The facial animations specifically are extraordinary. It's what we've come to expect from a ND title for better or worse. Not much more to say here. Story: Again, avoiding spoilers so I won't be going into specifics. The overall narrative is where this game has issues. It is fine; its not great nor terrible though it does have moments of both. The pacing feels off and I wonder, going back to the world space, if it would have been better for it to have been more linear. There are areas in the game that (are supposed to) have a sense of urgency but having so much space to explore, you may find yourself getting easily sidetracked and it just doesn't end up feeling as urgent as it should. The introduction of some of the factions don't really add anything to the narrative and seem to serve only as a means for the player to have something to overcome until the next main story beat is reached. It would have been better for them to have been developed further. The narrative, generally feels a bit disjointed and all over the place due to over-reliance of flashbacks and the order of events end up messing with pacing and impact of the story overall. Writer's self-described intentions (commentary on violence) end up falling somewhat flat due to the structuring of the story and ironically, the game play itself. It perhaps would have been better served having more tension building and less combat. To elaborate, how is killing supposed to feel impactful when you do so much of it through out the game? It plays out like a Rambo film with regards to violence. However, with all of that being said, emotional beats were not completely lost (on me). The lighthearted moments were great and felt good to experience. They felt genuine, like the characters were real and were some of the best moments in the game for me. In the more disheartening or painful moments, I could easily empathize with them. In those moments, it felt visceral.
I just want to thank all these moron SJWs (not) for ruining such a great story and please, please game devs, stop trying to please idiots that are a minority and not only that, they DONT EVEN BUY YOUR GAMES!!!!
I avoided myself from all the spoilers. All I knew was people were angry about the story. However, as I played the game I tried to think positively. Even at the early game where some 'big' event happened , I tried to have positive mind and progressed through the story. At the mid game where another huge event happened, I still, STILL, tried to think, 'okay let's progress further and then judge, maybe when I see the ending, it may change my scepticism'. HOWEVER, as I reach towards the late game it gets beyond tolerable and when I finally saw the ending, I was like, 'why did I commit 30+ hrs on this game'. The game mechanics, environment, face expression, etc are all fantastic and this is what pisses me off. Because all of that is completely ruined by one terrible story writing.
Story:Most people would disagree with this opinion but I really enjoyed the game, there were flaws with it, the story was a bit drawn out, I would have liked to play as Joel more and have less time with Abby, I think the emotions the game gives are things that not many other games have done, the sadness when Joel dies and the conflicting feelings when fighting Ellie with Abby and actually wanting to lose Graphics: amazing graphic 10/10 best of the generation no doubt, I understand how people might not like the story but giving the game anything from a 0-4 is unfair just for this reason Gameplay: also a 10/10 for the gameplay - builds from the last game but also stays true to its core, the dodge button and prone made the gameplay much better, saying that there’s no difference from the first game is just a lie, from the silencer to the new guns and Ellie’s knife and the new infected and boss fight Overall the small problems I had with the story didn’t ruin the game for me rather just stopped it from being a 9,10/10 but if u could I’d give the game somewhere between 7 and 8
Add a review here for The Last of Us Part II, or submit with only a rating... Graphics: Great Gameplay: Good Plot and Storyline: Bad Having all the good graphics and gameplay doesnt justify the bad and poor plot and storyline. This would be great for Nintendo Nes where players were looking for entertainment only
Игра затрагивает тему серой морали, с точки зрения сюжета, это довольно круто. Игра показывает реальный, жёстокий мир, где главного героя могут убить как щелчком пальца. Где шальная пуля попадёт не в стену, а в голову Джесси. С точки зрения геймплея, игра на уровне Red Dead Redemption 2, а я напомню, что RDR 2 одна из самых проработанных игр. И всё это вместе делает The last of us 2 жестокой, с неоднозначным финалом.
While the game boasts great graphics and level design, the story and pacing fail this game completely. I'll say this right now, the writing is terrible. I don't say that as somebody just saying that because I disliked some of the infamous story choices, the characters are unrelatable and uninteresting. There is no emotional investment into any of them as individuals and they feel forced in there just to facilitate the story. Characters die before they become interesting, others are written so badly that you cannot care about them. The developers attempt to emotionally manipulate the player in cheap and obvious ways, trying to make the player feel bad constantly. This didn't effect me but It was very obvious and it became irksome and preachy. It suffers from awful pacing, most of the time it feels like a slog to get through. This can be partly due to the choice to bring the game to a grinding halt at the halfway point, only to branch off into side stories. They might be okay on their own, but within the context of the grander story, it completely throws the pacing and atmosphere built by the first half. I found myself just wanting to get back to the story but I had to revisit the same locations over and over playing characters I didn't like or care about. The ending is terrible and makes no sense, it feels incredibly forced and It felt like this entire game was built around a theme or premise, rather than built around being a great experience. The game itself has issues but the deceptive marketing and proven lies from the developers soured the atmosphere and has had a very negative impact on those who bought into a false premise. Terrible practices to attempt to save sales at the expense of audience trust. I truly wanted to like this game, I went into it with a positive attitude and open mind and I struggled to even finish it considering how bored and uninvested I felt by then. What a shame.
I can't believe i just waited 7 fckn years for this piece of sh*t game. I can't believe Joël was made so dirty. He tells his name to Abby. In the last of us 1 he was the most cautious character and not easy to trust. We get to play fckn abby for the half of the game. WTF is that?! The ending is just dogsh*t, ellie remembers Joël and spares Abby. The game is just pointless. The leaks were FAKE. Naughty dog you should be ashamed
The parts where you play as Abby are just painful, you don’t feel anything for her even though the game tires to tell you she’s just misunderstood, but honestly I don’t care she sucks and it pisses me off that it’s Ellie’s stupid careless mistakes that cause her to track you down, and what is up with Ellie ? She’s not the lovable funny amusing girl from the first game .... It feels like she’s gone through a trauma but the game never explains What that is .... the game play is the only thing that saves this game but it’s a little Repetitive with long segments of basically, Kill all the Infected or human enemies, None of that trying to sneak past clickers from the first game, In fact the game is much easier than the first game, The story is a complete let down but the gameplay save the game from being terrible but sadly it’s just an average game, Which given its predecessor it’s a real shame and disappointment
I personally loved the game. A few narrative choices may not have been my favorite, but as a whole package, this game was an amazing experience for me. A lot of the hate it's recieving is pretty ridiculous in my opinion. Calling it trash and rating it a zero just seems a bit melodramatic.

Naughty Dog's gameplay still doesn't change and doesn't revolutionize the video game, I didn't like this game and the storyline choice the developers chose, I never really liked this studio and with The Last of Us Part II still hasn't reconciled me. Ellie's sexuality doesn't bother me but I don't like to see LGBTQ flags in a video game because I prefer to escape as much as possible from reality, same for the heroes of the game who are only women, do not put your political opinion a video game in the future please!
Even if the attention to detail is amazing in this game and the graphics are gorgeous for a ps4, the story was a huge letdown for me. Joel's death was anticipated from the first game, taking the fact that he basically butchered entire groups and some survivor would come to take revenge. The problem is that could've been done better than setting a game because a pointless npc from the first game died at the end. Abby's character is a problem in many ways: 1. a woman would not look like that in a million years without steroids treatment 2.everything she is doing is pure psychotic, and it represents that this character has seriously mental issues 3. Her companion, Lev(Lilly) is annoying just because screams : I'm a boy not a girl, please accept me! A good character is known for it's personality, not for sexuality. The last part with the rattlers is totally pointless : Ellie abandons it's girl for an old revenge story but when is about to kill abby she stopped because, joel wouldn't do the same thing, forgetting that we talk about a guy that butchered an entire military group to save her life.
Everyone who played the first game should stay away from this monstrosity at all costs. Can’t believe i was forced to play as someone i despise for a few hours before i deleted the game. Naughty Dog absolutely falsed advertised the game. I stayed away from all spoilers and despite that is the only PS4 game i deleted halfway through the game. Absolutely shocking, what a waste of my money and time.
The game play is great. However, the story is unreasonable. Abby has no reason to spear Ellie's life in the theater. And Ellie has no reason to let Abby go on the beach Totoally unreasonable
The graphics, animations, intens combat and level design are amazing. However those are not the only things why we love this franchise. The thing is, story and characters drew us to love the first game. Every thing in the first game just MADE SENSE. In this sequel most things DON'T. It's filled with plotholes. I'm so sad to say this but the story and writing is just plain piss poor. No justice was done to the characters we loved the most. Not because of their fate, but rather the completely out of character decisions that lead them to it. For me, someone who played the first game 10 times probably, this is a huge let down. Biggest disappointment in gaming history. A stellar franchise ruined by poor decision making from up top. Such a shame.. (The ego and delusions of the game director don't help either. Will be alot more cautious for the next naughty dog game)
Gameplay: 10 Graphics: 10 Story: 8,5 Characters: 9 One of my favorite game titles, it was very good game how I expected, but the story isn´t for everyone, the gameplay is amazing, characters are written great and emotions works, thanks naughty dogs for a very good experience :)
Gamplay is tight and responsive, with thrilling and sometimes straight panicking moments, but in the studios efforts to make the story shocking, it falls flat, and becomes a generic revenge story which isn't bad in itself, but the way it was executed and written leaves A LOT to be desired.
I won't talk much but all I have to say:- 1- the story is really bad 2- pacing and characters are very bad not like the first game. 2- gameplay and graphics are masterpiece.
Horrible game!! Garbage storytelling!! Terrible character development! A Filthy dirty stain in the gaming industry!!! Shameful Naughty Dog!! Fraudulent business practices. Boycott Naughty Dog!!!
Graphics, immersive audio and familiar but refreshed game play for Part 1. The story and dialogue from Part 1 was the main driver and attractor, Part 2 however, leaves much to be desired. Felt like there were political/social themes being forced into the narrative this time around and it felt so unnatural. One of the main characters has a physique that would just be near impossible to maintain given the world's conditions. Multiple new characters, uninteresting and under developed. I hate that this is what part 2 has come to.

where to start... trailers lied. Joel isn't even in the game, really. They made it look like Joel is part of the game. He isn't. They swapped for Joel in the trailers, it's actually other characters. You are left depressed after the first 2 hours of playing. "Someone" gets murdered, and then you're forced to play the murderer for 10 hours. The gameplay is identical to Part 1, and it's BORING. omg... "Rinse Repeat" all of 2 things: Sneak behind and stab, and shoot. Very VERY few environment puzzles. Extremely linear. The characters are awful, depressing, their faces look like they smelled a fart all the time, no humor, and their actions go against the characters we know. That isn't Ellie. Or Joel, but he's not even really in the game. And the ending is the most meh, disappointing ending that makes you feel like you played something pointless. Also, metacritic has repordedly not been leaving your negative reviews, so don't believe that number. It's much lower. The postives aren't having any deleted though. So just be aware.
One of the most truly disappointing gaming experiences. All of the excellent character growth and development were thrown into the trash. The story was lackluster at best, graphics were standard. I just dont have the words to express my disappointment.
Probably one of the worst games I've played. Yes the story is bad and naughty dog has made a terrible decision. But alot of the problem is gameplay. The gun play feels like the same terrible 3rd person shooter that they've been doing. It feels like uncharted 1 still. Or even worse it feels like days gone


I honestly and truly believe that last of us part 2 is god damn story telling masterpiece. It is not a story about hate, it is a story about love conquering hate and in order to understand the game proper you have to play abbie’s side rational. If understand abbie’s story and what she has been through you truly understand what Naughty dog has been wanting to deliver. Please give it a rational and impartial try and don’t **** reviewers like Angryjoe. Thankyou.
My honest review of TLOU2 Will contain some spoilers. The Last of Us 2 is a story-driven game with elements of stealth, action and survival in a post-apocalyptic world. The current state of the world is filled with a fungus that takes over humans and transforms them into zombie-like creatures. The greenery in the game is lush and all over like it's taking back over the earth. It looks beautiful on the PS4 Pro. Gameplay The Last of Us 2's gameplay is how you'd expect it to be but refined a little from the first game. Easy to control the character movements and trek around the different sceneries and areas within the game. I don't really know what else to say on this because it's basic stuff. I feel the scenery is well designed so it kinda hints on where to go next to progress the story. Graphics The graphics in this game are beautiful especially when seeing the greenery and trekking through forest areas. Everything looks better designed compared to the first instalment. It is definitely one of the nicest-looking games this generation. Animations When it comes to animations this game does them well. Everything is fluid when picking up resources, ammo, sneaking and all the other movements the characters make. I think motion capture has something to do with this also. Well done in the animations department. Now onto the negatives because these are my biggest reasons I didn't like this game much. Story direction I feel when it comes to the story the game combusts and dies. The story is a simple revenge plot due to Joel killing a random NPC close to the end of the first game which happens to be Abby's father. She simply then gets lucky in finding him after some trouble with infected and then deals with him in such an awful manner. Simply shoots one of his legs off then uses a golf club to beat the living hell out of him. I feel Joel isn't the proper Joel from the first game because why would he reveal his real name to people when he knows personally people would be after him. I feel they made Joel some dumbass person to automatically trust some random strangers and give them his real name. Back to the previous point though. Ellie walks in sees Joel all mangled up and sees him die. I know for a fact the majority of fans are disgruntled with the way he was killed. I feel and many others feel they spat on the character and made him out to be a supervillain or something. What annoys people more is you play as this character quite a bit throughout the game. Only to end up in the end not killing Abby (when playing as Ellie) and just walking away. The whole journey of the first game of building up the characters relationship is pointless because of the events of the second game. All to send this message that “humans are all trash”. Naughty Dog has betrayed the diehard fans and spat on Joel's character. To wrap this up I feel this sequel isn't as good as the first. I feel they just pandered to a select few groups of people and have suffered for it. The user reviews show people's opinions. It isn't being massively review bombed as the gaming journalists are putting it. It's from real people with real opinions. Not everyone agrees or has the same opinions on everything. For this, I score The Last of Us Part II a 6/10. The 6 marks going to the positives I gave at the start of my review. Neil Druckmann you needed to do better. Naughty Doggy-style!

The problem with the last of us 2 is that they killed the most beloved character that is Joel. And not only did Joel get killed, but they make you play as the character that kills him. And to top it off that ending was pure **** All that fighting and revenge, just to let the main person that kill Joel walk free Then metastatic giving good reviews like if they are the main player fan base.
So, i write this Review after my First Playthrough it took me 32 Hours to complete it cause i looted many Stuff. The Emotions i had in this Game i never had in any other game. About the Gameplay its pretty much like in the First one in my Opinion for me i really hate the Shooting in the Game cause it is made really realistic i guess. And its Kinda hard even on Very Easy. But this isnt a Bad Thing if something is made Realistic. So u need to play more sneaky. But it also good made with the new Mechanics like Laying and going through Small things. About the Level Design Of the Citys like Seattle, i need to say its really Amazing how good this is looking and how Naughty Dog made it. Im in Love with the Citys and the Buildings. the Mission design is also really Great. About the Characters The Ellie Character is Very Very good Designed how she Reacts in her Language Sad/Happy/Angry its pretty Impressiv how they did this. The Dina Character im already in Love with expect when u see The Farm Chapter and her Reaction and how she Cares about Ellie. The Jesse Character is also good Designed but he had to less Screentime in my Opinion to make a Judgement but overall he had some funny Jokes and was overall a nice Partner to Travel with. +++Spoiler+++ The Abby Character is in my Opinion besides of Ellie the best Character. She is so good Designed and i really liked the 3 1/2 Chapters we played as her. How she Cares about the Kids, i really really liked her Story. About Tommy & Joel i writed something later with also a Message to the much Critics. About the Infecteds i need to say, i think they are a lot easyer to kill than i the first Part but thats only cause u have a Knife which doesnt Destroy with Ellie so u can Instant Kill a Clicker or some other from Behind all the Time. About the New Infecteds the Shambler was Scarry and hard at the Beginning but later if u figuer out how its pretty Easy. About the Details. The Level of Details Naughty Dog put in this game is beyond the Sky. Its a whole new level, which i never seen before. But well we dont expect anything other from Naughty Dog. About the Music. The Music was set so Perfect on every Situation ur in i never experience something like this. About the Graphics. I never seen a Better Graphic on the Playstation than in this Game for me its even Better than in RDR2. The Music was set so Perfect on every Situation ur in i never experience something like this. Now Contains Huge Spoilers. ++++++++++SPOILERS++++++++++ In my Opinion the Death of Joel needed to be Brutal like this cause, u cant give the Player a REAL reveng feeling and Ellie aswell if u let some Character Die which the Player only see for a few Hours. So i needet to be Joel on a very Brutal way and his Life needed to End like this. About the Ending i understand why many People are Upset about it Ends. Cause so Joel´s Death was for Nothing. I fully Understand that but i also Understand the Ending a bit. Ellie is only a Human and i think when she saw how much Abby Cared about Lev. And she Also losed her Dad, and all her Friends by the Hand of Ellie. She maybe thought its already Enough for her. But im with the Guys who didnt like the Ending. Its Strange and isnt Perfekt in the Way the Story was going. What i need to Say. Everytime Ellie was Playing with the Guitar and was Singing i was melting away i loved this little Things so Extremly hard, that i also listening to this parts on YouTube while im Writing This. About some Critics and the Tommy & Joel Character. I understand why many people think Joel & Tommy are to soft. Telling Strangers their Full Name. Say where they Living. But u need to see this in Context with the Happenings. U find a Letter at the very Beginning about the Life of them in jackson and in the 5 Years they had Rest, and get more Trust in People cause of their Living in jackson with Hundred of People and the one who coming new in the Town. Joel and Tommy also dont get Younger. As i said i think cause of the Live in Jackson its Natural to try to help Strangers. But i also think saying theire Names was a but to much. About the LGBTQ stuff. Besides 1 Transgender which dont get Punched in your Face and some Colour Flags and Cliches Like Old White Man Harrasment Young Girls Kissing there is Nothing. My Rating for the Categorys are. Story 8.5/10 - Would be 10 if the Ending matches the way the Story is going. Level and Map Desing 10/10 - I dont think i need to say Much for a Liniar Story Game it is Very Very Impressiv. Gameplay 10/10 Characters 10/10 Enemys 8/10 Was getting Boring after a Time. Music 10/10 - I Would buy a Last of Us Music Album. Details 10 / 10 Graphics 10/10 9.5/10 Overall. U need to play the Game to feel it. Stream & Videos arent the Same. For me its a MASTERPIECE. Cant wait for a New TLOU. Thank You Naughty Dog!

Terrible sequel game ruined by a dumb agenda. This is not what fans of the first game wanted to see as a sequel. This do many moments in this game just didn't make sense to happen and felt forced just to push some dumb agenda narrative which ruined this game.
Wow... is amazing how long everybody waited for this game, about 7 years to make something great and special however they basically kill your hopes and dreams for what was advertised and said even by their own actors and ND itself, well they flush their saga and all that was special on the first game, I’m very disappointed for what fans got after many years and hopefully Sony will be smart enough to not support another TLOU game, how bad and how sad tbh. I was expecting something better and more special. Guess my expectations were too high for their agenda.
The story, characters, are crap. The only thing redeeming about this game is the graphics. Such a far FAR fall from the first one. It is such a shame since I have been looking forward of this game for so long. Should have just left the game alone.
To start off, I played this game with high hopes, staying away from trailers, leaks, and reviews prior to playing it. I came to it no spoilers or information being given to me. With that said, the best part of this game is the graphics and gameplay. The graphics are beautiful-- not matter how you look at it. The animations for the scenery is top notch-- running into snow and seeing it fall off a tree or leaving footprints behind you. Seeing a squirrel run up the side of the tree was amazing within the graphics. The audio also is really well done-- the gun fires and the sfx really create a dynamic environment. The gameplay is fun in the beginning-- being able to duck down further than the first one allows for more variety in how to traverse the environments. Being able to break in windows and move at your own free will was the best part. There is one moment that you actually are able to roam Seattle and visit different areas of the map which was by far the best part imo. There are some issues with gameplay-- mostly to do with how it progresses. I loved the first half because I usually am the type to sneak around and kill enemies through stealth-- halfway through the game it sets it up so you no longer can do that. The stealth is thrown away for a stuck in a room and fight it out type style. I have never been a fan of these game set-ups as it takes away from how different plays engage with the game. Now comes to the hard part-- the stories and character. As a member of the LGBT+ community, I am all for inclusion; however, the moment you start feeling like characters are a checklist of things the devs thought people would like-- it is a problem. Whenever I started to enjoy a character, they ended up getting shot-- this happens more than once. The characters from the past games are barely in it excluding Ellie. I would have killed for more Tommy and Ellie interactions. In the case of Joel, I understand that his death was going to happen. Putting it at the beginning of the game was a bad choice. You have little to no interaction with his character or even get to play as him. Not only that, but having a character spit on Joel after he is brutally murdered is like spitting on the original fans for like a white male protagonist. Ellie's love interest is manipulative and disgusting. The moment Ellie starts speaking of her ptsd, Dina shoots her down and tells her to "get over it". This is not a good portrayal of an LGBT+ Character. I had to look up Jesse's name because while I was interested in his character-- they killed him off after only an hour of interaction. Ellie herself isn't even similar to the kid in the first game-- she barely makes jokes and tries to make things lighter than what they are. I get that she is traumatized, but I barely see the little girl that I enjoyed from the first game in her character. Then comes the worst decision the devs could make-- you begin playing as Abby the worst character I have seen in awhile. She has the personality of a cardboard box. You are supposed to relate to her yet she doesn't show any remorse or regret. Ellie accidentally kills a pregnant woman which makes her absolutely sick to her stomach compared to Abby who almost kills Dina who is pregnant because REVENGE without a second thought. You are supposed to feel bad when one of her friends calls her the worst person ever-- but I agree with the friend. Even after she has learned of her mistakes she goes and MURDERS all the people she knew from her group to save a kid she found a few days before. I don't even remember her friends name which shows how important they were to the plot. Owen is the only other character I remember the name to and he was just annoying. I did not nor ever do I want a love triangle in my video games-- it is an overdone trope that is tedious and boring. Most of the characters can pretty much be summed up to one character trait and that is it. Yara and Lev probably had the most intriguing ideas behind their characters prior to them butchering their plot line. The idea of them running from a Religious cult because Lev wanted to be a boy? I would be far more interested in following Yara trying to escape with Lev then doing anything with Abby. The story of Lev having to murder his own mother left a bad taste in my mouth-- only to have Yara pretty much murdered two minutes later. The writing and characters are on par with the last season of Game of Thrones-- shock is more valuable than good character development. All around the story is horrible. In the beginning I was okay with the revenge plot. It is over-done and tiresome; however, I could at least see some semblance of an idea. Once you get past that, it is a chore to work through the rest. The ending was also crap. You have Ellie saying she has to leave to get revenge, murder a bunch of people only to let Abby go. Go play Days Gone instead. Graphics: 8 Gameplay: 6 Story: 2 Character: 1


I'm almost at the point where I want to stop playing and have been for a little while. Most people have already seen spoilers but I'll try and keep it short as to why I really take issue. The story: it's distasteful and basically makes an open mockery of everything I loved about the first game. Its not gritty and edgy/it's just outright discussing and carries no emotional value, just shock factor and that's about it. The gameplay is nice, polished from the first but nothing to make up for the main reason I waited seven years. This game is an absolute kick in the groin and its so disappointing, I'm not raging mad, just so disappointed that I think it best that I just trade in now and revel on what I liked about the first game
The only thing nice about the game is the graphics. They look great. The gameplay is non existent basically because it's more like a movie and less of a video game. The story is terrible and characters do things that are out of character. This game should have never been made and characters have been ruined. I hate this game. I really do. Don't buy it. Worst Story ever. A middle school kid could write a better story.
The gameplay is so good u cant expect any less from NoughtyDog however the story is so lazy and cheap makes u feel boared and hate the characters as jole for being stupid. After he took down the whole fireflies in 1st game the John wick style he got killed easily by some teenagers. WTF

This game is amazing naughty dog did it again all the other bad reviews on here obviously are people who did not play it just cuz the story did not go the way you wanted it to does not make it a bad game the graphics are almost next gen graphics the story WAS great the gameplay was awesome it was not too long kind of hated that we lost Joel but it was their story to tell not ours just our job to enjoy it. Too many people review bombing this game just because they're jealous it is not coming to PC or it did not go their way deal with it it is what it is and it is a 10 out of 10 game amazing job 2 naughty dog Sony and everybody involved thank you and looking forward to many more
Este jogo é incrível graficamente. Jogabilidade excelente e história que prende. Certamente posso dizer que está no top 3 dos maiores jogos que já joguei..

Отвратительный сюжет. И задрала уже повестка. 3 только из-за трудов программистов и аниматоров. Так бы 1 влепил.
Искусственное растяжение сюжета, ЛГБТ пропаганда, левелдизайн полный отстой, Дракман насрал в душу фанатам.
The entire legacy was lost to the progressive agenda. A bad and expensive game. I didn't buy it because of other people's beliefs, I just wanted a decent sequel to Joel and Ellie's original story.
I understand why people are pissed with the choices the writers made with this game. I loved the first game and its characters as much as everyone and knew it was a game that was going to stick with me for a long time, if not for life. But I get why Naughty Dog went the direction they did with this game. In my opinion, the story of TLOU2 perfectly captures the tragedy and brutality of the post-apocalypse world they created. That there are repercussions for the decisions made in the first game and this game. Not many games (besides Telltale games) do that, show the perspectives of those who are hurt by the main character’s actions. Many people will disagree, but I kind of respect Naughty Dog for making these major story decisions and they probably knew it piss off the fanbase of this franchise. I’m not saying that the story is perfect, there is definitely that “political correctedness” that other people despise, I don’t mind some of it but there is a little bit too much here and it threw me off in terms of “jeez, okay we are in pretentious territory here”. Also, some characters make really weird decisions that can be out of character and don’t make sense disregarding the build-up of some tragic events. I can say that this game can get depressing and there is so many emotional moments with joyful moments so far few in between. Which might turn some people off. Despite these downfalls, this story was great enough to keep me going and keep me immersed. Again, like the first, it is a story that will stick with me. I think people should give this game’s story a chance. I had bit of a long section for the story part of the game because it is narrative-driven, but I should also speak about the gameplay and graphics. Combat and stealth sections are tension-filled and can be really challenging, which I appreciate. Naughty Dog improved in terms of adding realism to the combat sequences as you can get knocked down or flinch when you get shot, completely throwing your aim off. I played on the regular difficulty and I got my ass kicked a lot. Enemy human AI is pretty smart and will try to flank you, especially dudes with melee weapons. Moreover, the infected sections are still creepy and tense as always with some new enemy types to keep it challenging. I plan to play on the hardest difficulty to make resources scarcer, as I felt on the regular difficulty resources was never really that scarce despite what gameplay videos have said. They even added a feature where you make your own custom difficulty which is pretty cool. Lastly, the graphics are amazing, as expected of recent Naughty Dog titles, so good that your PS4 will sound like a motorcycle (IDK if that’s a good thing). The facial animations are on point in combat and in cutscenes, in particular the combat, the facial animations add so much realism if you can pay attention and adding to the brutality of it. The post-apocalyptic scenery can be really beautiful in most parts of the game. Thank you to those who read this whole review, I know it’s long, but I really wanted to get all of my honest opinion out on this game. I do understand all the negative reviews and why people can’t stomach the story. But if you’re looking to buy the game but are a bit sceptical, I’d say give it a shot. I really think its important to understand the context of the story decisions Naughty Dog has made in TLOU2.
Потрясающая графика, настоящая и оправданная жестокость. Лучшее что могло бы быть на ps4
Its draining, there's no point in it if you loved the series. I got up to ABBS sex scene and couldn't take it anymore and that alone was almost my breaking point, but what made me genuinely hate this game and eject it out of my life, was when you play as Ellie, running around, killing dogs..... talk about beauty in destruction, especially when its done by your own hands huh Niel? Geeze oh well, next game please. I recommend buying a used copy of the game on Letgo or some other trade site. I did.
انا ما اعرف كيف نوتي دوق صاروا كذا! اللعبة لا تقارن بالجزء الأول ولا أنصح بشرائها أبدا. العروض التسويقية قبل نزول اللعبة كانت غير صادقة حيث اظهروا وجود شخصية هامة وفي اللعبة قاموا بتغييرها. اللعبة لديها تقييم قوي من المواقع الاعلامية فقط لان اللعبة تدعم اجندة الشواء ليس إلا. الرسوم والمؤثرات البصرية ١٠/١٠ القصة ١/١٠ تصميم الشخصيات ١/١٠ الذكاء الصناعي ٤/١٠ السرد ١/١٠ النتيجة النهائية ٢.٥/١٠ لا انصح باللعب
This is an amazingly good game, the story of the characters are all very well done. Sure, it’s not perfect because it has flaws but it deserves a 9 points smoothly. Those who directly pull down the game should be ashamed of themselves ....

Кошмар , открытая пропаганда лгбт и феминизма мужеподобные девушки , не понятный сюжет. 1 часть шедевр была .
The gameplay and mechanics are largely unchanged from the 1st installment being serviceable but basic. This wasn't as much of an issue then because the 1st was carried by the strength of its narrative but there's no such redeeming quality here. The leaks were true and there are as badd as purported.
This game is a piece of sh*t, I'm not against the events of the story but the narrative is broken in every possible way. Even if you get it for free believe me it's not worth your time

The Last of Us Part II is a Masterpiece and will never be forgotten, its sad to see all of the hate surrounding this game but most of those people either havent played the game at all or played for 2 hours then stopped, killing joel sucks but its whats best for this story, Abby may be a heavily disliked character but she sure is badass The ending isnt perfect but that doesn't take away from all of the intense, emotional, brutal and devastating combat and story beats throughout the game.
So I finished it a few days ago and I'm going to give my honest opinion. Gameplay wise the game is good. Though there is not much improvement from the last one. Story wise it's....bad. I don't dislike TLOU2's story because it's depressing. The first game was depressing yet still good. I dislike it because it takes a big fat dump on pre-existing characters and tries to make me sympathize with most of the new **** characters. Only 3 of the new characters are actually sympathetic. The rest are a bunch of murdering hypocritical psychopaths. The story focuses on themes anyone with an ounce of sympathy or empathy knows. Revenge ≠ equal justice and killing for anything other than survival is bad. It's completely pointless and only tries to make people feel **** and not try and convey anything of real substance.


first thing is you don’t kill main character like these fools did and after killing joel they forced you to play with abby and wow the ending was so unsatisfyingly bad.

These user "review" scores for this game are just pathetic. At the time of this post, the game hasn't even been out for 20 hours and it has a rating of 3.5. It takes close to 30 hours to beat the game. Meaning people are rating the game without playing it. People are being biased and rating it based off emotion. The game is better than every other game in history that has been released so far on so many levels. To deny that is a strait up lie. It may not be perfect, but it is a technological leap in gaming. This game is a masterpiece. These ratings are deceitful and it's sad to watch.

I am already playing it for the second time. Truly an exceptional game! Ignore the haters who didn't even play it but gave it 0/10 and play it for yourself!
Big dissapointment, bad , not thought out story ruins everything, as this game without story worth nothing, Usage of cheap tricks to shock people instead of good writing , ruined established characters in pursuit to bring new lgbt characters, which they forgot to develop good enough, so they became very flat and uninteresting. Few moments in a game were interesting, but in general 90% of it is just boring, uninspiring, autistic and not entertaining, you just feel how entertainment goes away from you - the more you're playing. This game is Dementor.
What can be said that already hasn't been said? The leaks definitely changed my mindset going into this game, which is unfortunate. I tried to avoid them like the plague, but some still got through. Let's get out this out of the way. The game on a technical level is beyond anything being done by any Dev out there. It is truly amazing that a PS4 is pushing out these visuals and the sound design is just amazing. On a technical level, my god this game deserves a 20 out of 10! Sadly, graphics aren't the only factor when playing a game. The story needs to be the glue that holds the entire game together to give you the drive to continue playing and this is where the game falls apart. I couldn't care less about Abby. This has nothing to do with her sexual orientation and everything to do with "WHO IS SHE?" Sure we get a little tiny glimpse into why she hates Joel, but comes on. I waited 7 years to play a sequel to my favorite game and the lead character gets killed within the first hour of the game. Ok, great, we are going to get a classic revenge story and with Naughty Dog twists, right? Wrong! We now go on an adventure that is way too long for its own good! The game is painfully too long and you start blowing through areas and skipping exploring because you just want it to be over. You don't even know why you are playing. Switching to play as Abby makes me dislike the character even more and then keep forcing you to play as her. I get it from their perspective and story telling and they were really trying to break the mold here, but it falls flat and there NEVER a pay off. Meaning, we are playing for nothing. You play a 30 hour game for nothing, basically. So basically we all waited 7 years for the most highly anticipated game of the generation and from the jump you have expectations smashed, forced to sit through a VERY long game not caring about half of it because we have no reason to care about Abby or her cause. We don't get the pay off we desperately wanted for Joel's death and it just comes off as lazy, forced writing to make a sequel. This game didn't need to be made from a story perspective, but Sony and Naughty Dog couldn't pass up this pay day. In the end, I came away so disappointed and this now has me questioning Naughty Dog games in the future. I get they wanted to have that GOT's moment, that Walking Dead "OMG" shock, but they didn't pull it off here at all. They gave me no reason to replay this game due to the length and again due to the fact that literally half the game does not need to be played, forces you to breeze through sections. Maybe that is the reaction Naughty Dog wanted all of us to feel, disappointment? Maybe they wanted to be different and tell us revenge is bad? Who knows, but the story is literally one of the worst and is such a drastic almost unsettling polar opposite of what made the original Game of the Generation.
Part 2 makes a lot better and I really had a lot of fun with the game! The story is cool and the controls have been improved (thank God!). It is a huge game, the sound was great... Unfortunately it is a bit too long. 9,8/10
Долгожданный проект от Naughty Dog. Игра революция в техническом плане. Революция в плане проработке деталей. Ещё не было игры, где настолько бы уделялось внимания деталям. Единственная игра, которая по своему качеству, стоит рядом с RDR2. Сюжет рассказывает нам о мести. А чему нас научил Артур Морган? «Месть-забава для недоумков». Сюжет учит нас тому, что не стоит обезличивать людей. Система свой - чужой иногда сбоит. Нил Дракманн сделал то, чего от него никто не ждал, то за что фанаты первой части его будут недолюбливать. В сюжетном плане он сделал эксперимент, который не всякий игрок способен понять. «Хороший антагонист это протагонист собственной истории.» TLOU2 – это не просто игра. Это философия. Такие игры выходят один раз в десять лет. Надеюсь, планка игр от Naughty Dog никогда не упадёт.
The game is great in every aspect,except the narrative. Superb grafics,superb gameplay,superb soundtrack. But the game is harmed by underveloped caracthers,bad pacing,bad writing,bad narrative choices.
The game play intense at time with same playing formula from the first gameWith improved graphics. The story jump lines so much youLose track and it makes it hard to connect to any character at the end you don’t care about either Ellie or Abby, especially after Abby call Joule after he saved her life!
I was highly expecting the arrival of TLOU2. The graphics if this game are brilliant. Combat is brutal and enemies plentiful. Story is well crafted. The aspect of Open World and exploring for supplies works well. I honestly enjoyed this game.
This is the worst game in the history of games, maybe ever. These poor reviews are not the vocal minority. This is the opinion of the vast majority.
The reviews for this game are fake and paid for. The story is pure and utter garbage, the gameplay is great as usual but it does get repetitive. Ultimately a disrespect to the main characters.
Abby’s muscles too big. Graphics are too realistic that I thought a clicker was going to jump out of my screen. Must redo the entire game.
Just completely disappointed with this game. First I'll start with the pros. The visuals and voice acting are extraordinary. The negatives however far outweigh the positives. The gameplay is completely unchanged from part one which makes it feel more like a DLC than a new game. And of course there's the story and writing. What a complete and utter mess. It's like the creative team decided to take a huge dump on the fans of the first game.

Character consistency has disappeared, ending is unfulfilling and lacklustre. Same gameplay as before with some additions which is nothing special and will get stale. Beautiful graphics and score with great animation. But all in all a narrative driven game with a weak narrative really isn't that good of a game.
Gráficos increíbles,banda sonora excelente,jugabilidad buena,pero la historia falla estrepitosamente,mal contada,varios agujeros argumentales y varias inconsistencias en la personalidad de los personajes.
Favourite character is killed off and thats when everything went downhill. Its such a horrible game
денис: Люди вложили в эту игру душу, а вы говорите мусор?! я: Какие люди вложили «душу»? Анита Саркисян? Или концепт белый мужчина - обязательно бесхребетное и бесполезное существо, а женщины (предпочтительно геи и транссексуалы) всегда сильные и независимые - это и есть «душа»? Или беременная женщина на 8-9 месяце, рвущаяся на передовую боевых действий - это и есть «глубокий смысл»? денис: Тебе не понять
I want a refund, this story is a pile of dog***, what good is a game with excelent graphics,sounds, cinematics, if your telling a story thats made by a 5 year old, is it a good game? yea if you dont mind having the story suck so much a** then i would say go ahead. solid 1 for me
Don't waste your money with this game. If you want to maintain a positive perspective of this series as a whole, DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME!!!! The established relationships and concepts of the first game are completely undermined in this game. From Joel dying, to having the player play as the person who kills Joel for 11 HOURS STRAIGHT!!! I was depressed from the experience.
I loved the first game with its wonderful characters and well told story, you really felt something when important characters died because they were well written and it was believable, on the other hand tlou2 says screw that it takes a whole different direction. If you truly want to play a masterpiece I suggest you skip this one and get the first game, now thats a great game to play.
Pretty average. Would have been awesome if this was released 5 years ago. Now, just average by today's standards. Story is alright. The character dynamics are boring. It's like the developers completely forgot why people loved the first game so much. It wasn't the "gritty world". Or the gameplay, which was only slightly innovative at the time, but hardly the selling point of the game. It was the story and relationship between the characters. The dynamic of taking someone who had lost everything, and giving them something to hope for. To the point where they will sacrifice everything to save that person. The motivation is love, not hate. The sequel plunges you into hatred. Sure it's fine to explore that element, but doing so while destroying what people love is the wrong move. Just make your own game, a spin-off, a new franchise to explore those elements, don't hijack a franchise people love. You've hijacked the fans love of the characters to make a profit from pre-orders, and shat on the core audience that loved the original game. People don't dislike the game because Ellie is gay, or that there is a trans person (maybe some do, but **** em). We already knew about Ellie, fans played the expansion for TLoU where this is explored. It was great. It built our love for the character and her journey. We dislike it, because you destroyed the characters we love.

This game is not bad actually part 2 is good. if you play until end you gonna like it. However story little problem for me on the other hand first and second chapter are boring but then going to good. Enemy.place,shooting are amazing. When you reach final you will see very epic scenes and that’s enogh for me. Good and diffrent you should play when you catch discount.
Jeder der eine negative Wertung abgibt, hat anscheinend nicht viel von der Story verstanden oder ist einfach zu jung für ein Erwachsenen Spiel. Dieses Spiel ist ein Meisterwerk, was seines Gleichen sucht.
Another masterpiece by Naughty Dog! GREAT GAME! Hope they will get us soon some dlc or start making new part



Neil has really denied us the first impression of what we thought the game would have been. Hell! I was more attached to Joel than i was even with Ellie and i think they didn't put better action sequences with Ellie. I love the first game better. Its shameful how someone can destroy such a franchise after 7 long years of preparation
Finally brought myself to finish this. Was a terrible dumpster fire Last of Us part 2 is. God how could anyone at Naughty Dog look at themselves in the mirror every morning. They should feel sick to their stomachs. Thanks for destroying one of the most beloved games with the original Last of Us. I don't even want to go back and play that one again because of how much I despise the sequel. It would be the same as starting Game of Thrones from season one again and watching through the final season.
Отвратительный сюжет! Зачем ?! Зачем мне играть за Эбби и переживать ее историю ? Когда сам сценарист заставляет ненавидить ее в начате и потом когда играешь за нее вовторой половине игры! Концовка просто отвратная! Столько было пройдено ... Ради чего!? Не спорю Джоела должна была настигнуть карма . И его смерть закономерна. Но накой мне нужна эта Эбби ? Зачем мне пихают ее ? Я не хочу играть за нее! Не хочу смотреть эту отвратительную сюжетную линию. Где она якобы помогает какому то левому ребенку, но в тоже время предает всех свох друзей и близких! Disgusting plot! What for ?! Why would I play as Abby and relive her story? When the screenwriter himself makes you hate her at the beginning and then when you play for her in the second half of the game! The ending is just disgusting! So much has been passed ... For what !? I admit Joel should have overtaken karma. And his death is natural. But why do I need this Abby? Why are they shoving her to me? I don't want to play for her! I don’t want to watch this disgusting storyline. Where she supposedly helps some left child, but at the same time betrays all her friends and relatives!
Amazing graphics, lighting, level design.. Story is utterly disgusting. Characters lost all their charm, intelligence and personnality. ND just threw an overload of free violence and tell us we are supposed to feel bad. Watch how this game will be used to justify "videogame violence" afterward. I feel bad for half the studio who was shut down for speaking up against this piece of crap on the back of them being "anti-trans" when it was just about the scenario. And the way Sony forces reviewers to give it good score and silence the others is making me sick. Their is no philosophy here, there is no SJW crap; it's just terribly terribly bad writing and thinking
A masterpiece. The immersion in history is brutal. All the details are very careful, spectacular Graphics. The gameplay is good but not the best, sure it will be fixed in some patch. If you really like video games, you will love it in every way.

I think this was supposed to be the game of this generation but it’s mildly a gameplay improvement compared to the first game and a story disaster. The SJW elements actually make the story boring to the long term fans even though it’s not the main issue imo. The story is weak a priori with little character development and backbone. The gameplay is the main issue nevertheless. The game is barely more fun than the first game with 2 major problems: 1) long boring walks that can’t be fixed after the first playthrough, 2) the game forces you in boring explorations as key objects are hidden in large optional area. The latter reduces the fun and makes it possible to skip significant things that if missed create frustration. In the end, the first game remains superior both story wise, character development and gameplay and the second is definitely not the game of this generation. With these budgets you expect the directors to be brilliant and life touching but I guess Kojima is the only man right now who is able to do it. Suggestion: lower the budgets as you are not able to have decent triple A and focus on gameplay rather than story as you are very weak on the latter.
8/10 gameplay 4/10 story/writing It’s a good game but a bad sequel. Some games and movies suffer from sequelites. sequelites: is the sequel for an amazing game/movie that turns bad
La peor historia de un videojuego. Sin sentido ninguno. Historia de venganza sin venganza. Bueno si, se venga la hdp de abby. Personaje con maldad q se sale con la suya. Te deja con un sabor de boca horroroso.
Wow I literally have no words to explain how disappointing this game is. The story is uninspiring just a whack revenge story. The only reason for killing joel was to give us this sorry excuse for a sequel, how does a man who survived everything the world has throw at him for the last 25 years gets killed in the worst possible way ever. than the game makes you play as the person who kills joel for a big part of the game in order for us to feel bad for her and justify her actions of killing her. horrible story whoever though this was a good idea obviously didn't understand the story and attached fans felt with joel and ellie for it to end with joel being killed off in such a petty way its completely idiotic. I and probably many fans though that joel would die in this game but in a more meaningful way, protecting ellie or sacrificing himself, not for a disgraceful revenge story. the fact that they make you play as this character is pretty much the worst decision ever. I put the controller down uninstalled the game and returned it to gamestop. never have I ever wanted to kill a video game character more than abby and it turns out ellie doesn't even do it. yeah heads up ellie has no problem murdering about 100+ people to get to her just to let her go in the end. worst of all ellie literally loses everything, joel, dina and the life they created, she even loses her pinky finger and ring finger and cant play the guitar anymore. holy crap the girl walks into the woods and the credits roll. what a terrible ending for such a loved character this sequel defiantly should not have been made.
**** overhyped game .. played it once and sold it. Waste of time and money Damn it

I am taking a point off for the game play really not having evolved and Naughty-Dog's insistence on adhering to its usual formula. But all the complaints about story are false. Its two stories which go way beyond the basic conflict driven by the ending of TLOU1. Its not about LGBTQ rights. Its not about whether you "like" the characters, or even about whether you feel uncomfortable with so much killing. Its about society going crazy when survival is the only value people have in common. Be patient with it.
Great visual style. The average gameplay. But the plot is terrible, this is an absolute abomination... seven years waiting for a great sequel and they create a ridiculous story like that. Change the screenwriter.
where to start? This game for me doesn´t exists, crap history, sad ending, the first one is nothing compare to this....gameplay is okay for 2013 Naugthy what are you thinking?

Despite the whole controversy surrounding part 2 the game was an amazing experience, the story was amazing, characters were well done and the graphics and gameplay were spot on.
Really disappointing. Graphically good but a game that has added pretty much nothing new to the original (gameplay) apart from an over convolution of sjw/pc story telling which basically destroys any story arc. The detraction from the story by woke politics throughout the game completely ruins any story telling and makes it unbelievable and unbearably bad...

False advertising: customers pay and expect what they have been promised. Half (!) of the game is played through the eyes of a player character that has never been announced. Poorly written plot twists, new characters are not compelling and they do not develop. Pace suffers because of over-reliance on flashbacks. When it comes to sequels "artistic vision" cannot be allowed to completely ignore and disrespect paying customers' expectations.
I want to thank the Leakers for saving me $60.00 all the leaks where true.They did me a solid, The game is woke trash and thank you Neil **** for ruining my second most anticipate game.

Probably the best game of this generation, if you dont like abby I want to let you know that thats exactly what they wanted. Brilliant game, truly a masterpiece
Coming to terms with Joel's death, understating how truthful this universe is, I can't let my feelings for him blind me like Ellie did. This is a story about people, actions and consequences. Revenge and forgiveness are the cores of this game, and it delivers a strong message of how expensive the cost for vengeance is. Not only this, but also the fact that in the end nothing will change what happened in the past. So yes, with the proper distancing, I learned to admire this masterpiece. Sure, it would've been nice to see Joel dying later in the game? Yes It would've been nice to have Joel alive with Ellie? Yes But this game is a accurate view of how complex life is, and how hurtful, cruel, and savage humanity could get in extreme situations. No plot shield for protagonists, because this is not a game about a main character. It's about perspectives and the two sides of a conflict. Obs: they made the game too long, but that doesn't kill the experience.
This game is the worst sequel you ever can imagine They just killed Joel and made Ellie lesbian Abby is not even a character, just feminist terminator The ending is really messed up And also, they are scared of bad reviews and then they decided to just delete all our opinions Guys, really, do NOT buy this thing called "game" Better buy Ghost of Tsushima
Es un juego excelente, que exprime al máximo las capacidades del ps4 por su atención al detalle, me canicas de combate entretenidas y sobretodo una historia madura que apetece terminar. Su pecado más grande es que es demasiado largo y hay cosas que el juego puedo evitar para hacerlo más didáctico. Sin duda es un juego que recomendaría a todo poseedor de una ps4

Well as a consumer I feel this story was a disrespect to the fans and main characters. Which I was invested in was the main characters and story but this game took a 180 degree turn from the last game and just did not work for me. I will say the game has outstanding graphics, gameplay was fun and the soundtrack for this game was amazing, but unfortunately it was not enough to keep me invested in the game where the storys is what made Naughty dog great. Unfortunately I will never pre-order a game from Neil again for how he treated the game consumer's
I just ended the game and I honestly feel disappointed. I get what Naughty Dog wanted to achieve with this story, but it just doesn't work for me. The story and once beloved characters suffer from lazy writing, bad pacing and stupid plot holes...and once the credits have rolled, you don't feel satisfied in any way. The game also overstays it's welcome, for which reason the gameplay just feels repetitive and boring after the 15-20hour mark. And the fact that I was forced to play as an other (uninteresting) character for such a long time, only added to this problem. So, even though it breaks my heart to say this: I can not recommend this game.
não é a pior história como muitos pintam, mas para mim o final poderia ser um pouco melhor, me parece que do meio para o final eles perdem um pouco o fio da miada. Mas ainda indicaria o jogo para quem é fã da série.
The story line reminds me a lot of the Pain arc in Naruto Shippuden except it's much darker. The thing I didn't like about this story was the pacing where I felt it was a bit messy especially on Abby's side, too dragging and boring for most of the time. Gameplay, combat, graphics and music are really good and I have no complaints at all. Overall I enjoyed the game and this come from someone who was really disappointed after reading about the leaked story on reddit and twitter and saw the clip of golfing part, so yeah 8/10.
This game is personally very disappointing and it all stems from story, pacing, and character decisions in the writing of this game. The gameplay is good and more refined than the first entry. The graphics are amazing as is the soundtrack. The acting is also very good. Unfortunately, I do not care for the new characters and the game drags on way too long.The twists to the story feel contrived and the whole story feels rather pointless. I wish Naughty Dog had just left The Last of Us as one and done and not made this sequel.
Thr game is amazing. Graphics are terrific, best in the industry right now. I couldn't have asked for better. The gameplay is just as good as the first game, but even smoother. The animations in melee combat is amazing, and the dodge mechanic is a good add on from the first game. The story is also one of the best in the industry. I know some people won't agree with me, but I live the story. Do your self a favor and buy this game.
The story of TLOU2 is ABBYsmal. we waited 7 years for this game and this is the direction they took...none of the characters make sense. What message is naughty dog beating us over the head with? That revenge is bad and forgiveness is good? I’m sorry that is a weak plot . We’ve seen this cliche done better before. How does Joel and Tommy, veteran hunters follow armed strangers to the basement of that house and then be forced to play as Abby? Really? Who signed off on this?
This game is very bad, the gameplay is repetitive, the story is bad and the characters are unlikable and un-relatable. I practically had to speed run the second half of the game just to get it over with.
I was so excited for the second part of the series but it turned out to be a big disappointment, I would give credit for the hard work they did on graphical aspects, combat development and overall atmosphere/theme but the story was awful in so many ways. The feeling you get when they propose the idea of blind revenge with no character development plus trying to sell lesbian love affair at each corner of the game made it lose my interest sadly.
Mis expectativas simplemente fueron muy altas y por eso me decepcioné, sin contar los trailers falsos y editados... no debieron hacer eso... Pésima historia pero la jugabilidad esta fenomenal. Es un juego que solo lo jugaria a lo mucho 2 o 3 veces no más a diferencia del primero que lo puedo jugar mil veces y no me canso. Le doy un 4 porque literal solo disfrute la mitad del juego(Ellie) y la otra mitad es aburrido y no debieron ponerle tanto relleno...y no disfrutas jugando con un personaje detestable que solo quieres ver morir... es enfermo
Finally finished after 10 long days, 27h gameplay wise. Anyway I can't say I've liked the game, some parts playing through was nice to get me going with nice play, riding through Seattle day 1 and flash backs were decent, although I heavily disagree with Ellie character development, and things creators intended her to say. Game is actually a torture masked in its predecessor trying to pick cream from the top just to get Naughty dog fame for prolonged period of time. I can't see this game anywhere near
As I was about to write this review and check the spoiler box it occurred to me that it would have been really nice had Naughty Dog had warned us all that this game would not only ruin the series and guarantee little to no interest in further installments, it would spoil the entire beloved first game and best-loved character. This was very similar to what Star Wars had done Luke Skywalker. To start, it's fair to praise both the graphical beauty of this game and the ambitious vision for storytelling. Here, Naughty Dog tries to weave a complex tale about the pitfalls of vengeance with multiple perspectives and moral ambiguity. Unfortunately, this could have probably been accomplished without the myriad of questionable story-telling directions Naughty Dog ended up taking. Just to sum this up briefly, The most loved character was brutally murdered early in the game in an all too convenient chance meeting with a group who was hunting him down where he uncharacteristically let his guard down to a group of armed strangers. This is the oddity that is The Last of Us 2, a game that has grand storytelling ambitions but then falls into cheap McGuffins and plot holes at key moments. The game not only brutally kills of Joel, it rewrites his history, turning ultimately ruining the character of the first game as well which makes the entire affair that much more senseless. It doesn't help that the game then forces you to play as his wholly unlikable killer for half of the entire pointless experience. Manipulative tactics are employed to try and garner sympathy for Abby, but in the end, you still really want her to get what she has coming....and in that regard, this is never accomplished either. Of course, it's understood that Ellie "breaks the cycle of violence" by choosing to show mercy, but what then for the thousands of people she killed along the way to get to Abby? It seems like after all that sparing a single life, especially THAT life just does not carry the weight or message that is hoped and it leaves everything feeling pointless and nihilistic in the end. Reflecting back on the ending of that first amazing game, I always thought that it was a fitting point to end the story completely. We never really needed to come back and see how they were doing four years later. I'm just going to pretend this game never happened and I have zero interest in TLOU 3 should that ever be made. - Graphics are amazing - Gameplay is OK - Story is ambitious, yet a complete failure
The game is absolutely a masterpiece in gameplay and story, in my opinion it’s the best game ever made
The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece. People keep saying Joel deserved better. Did he really?! Joel was never heroic. We rationalized his actions in the first game and created a hero’s mythology for him because that’s the nature of video games. That hospital scene at the end of Part 1 was an act of pure evil. No matter how you cut it. That was the moment Joel went from lovable father figure willing to do anything to protect his “daughter” and the memory of his biological daughter to a villain. And the fact that Ellie reveals in Part 2 that SHE ACTUALLY WANTED TO DIE, makes it even worse. In video games the quest is usually to “save the world”. In The Last of Us Part 1 we ended up realizing we played as a character who at the end stopped the world from being saved in a selfish act (that we admittedly empathized with because we experienced the heartbreak of Joel losing his daughter and the incredible bond he developed with Ellie). That STILL doesn’t justify what he did. Not only did he murder a slew of innocent people, HE STOPPED THE WORLD FROM BEING SAVED. It turned the entire video game medium on its ears. Brilliantly. And words can’t describe how genius it was for Naughty Dog to give players the “choice” to shoot the doctor or not at the end. I always thought that was ingenious. But man oh man The Last of Part 2 let’s us see just how GENIUS it was. Violence begets violence, karma is cyclical, and no good deed goes unpunished. Whether we “like” it or not Joel had it coming. As does most characters in this **** world of human depravity where THERE ARE NO HEROES. The amount of emotion Naughty Dog was able to illicit from me with The Last of Us Part 2 is some sort of artistic miracle. The key to making Abby’s character work was she was actually the FIRST character to realize the destruction her actions was causing and decided to break the cycle. So by the end of the game I loved Abby’s character and wanted her to find peace just as much as Ellie. The fact that they pulled that off is astonishing. I love her relationship with Owen and the Aquarium sequence was an ingenious set piece that they used to perfection. That being said, they used those moments of serenity against us because the moment they made us have a “boss fight” with Ellie as the villain and forced us to choke her out is one of the most gut-wrenching sequences Ive ever witnessed. In a game of movie. First time in my life I was “scared” to press a button on the controller. I didn’t want any part of it. AND THATS THE POINT. The Last of Us Part 2 is the greatest deconstruction of violence and it’s consequences ever made. In any medium. Period.
Graphics, Audio and Gameplay are all superb as is the voice-acting which is brilliantly tied into the facial expressions and emotions of the characters themselves making them very realistic. A special mention for the groundbreaking accessibility options that allow this game to be enjoyed by a much wider audience. My hat goes off to Naughty Dog for this. Unfortunately, that’s it for the good things about this game. LOTU I was a masterpiece because the story centred on the evolving relationship between Joel and Ellie who, in turn, both grew in our affections. We waited 7 years to continue the story with those characters who were close to our heart, then what happens? Not only does Joel get brutally murdered so early on but we are forced to play as his killer for half the game. Any attempt by ND to try and get us to empathise with Abby just fails miserably at this point and the motivation to continue playing the game just drops drastically. The final insult is the highly unsatisfactory ending to, what is overall, a very grim and depressing story which I have no desire to play through again. In short, the game had everything we wanted but the story.
Very good gunplay Smooth aiming calibration very good game play and graphics. Sadly blunt and boring story and characters kill a game that could be a legendary one.
An amazing journey through the human condition. The blurring between the classic protagonist/antagonist roles was mesmerizing. A must-play for everyone out there. If you haven’t played the first one, that is a must for this game.
Desde el primer minuto te das cuenta que estás tomando el control de un juego épico y maravilloso La historia historia es muy cruda , el personaje de Ello es quizá de los más trágicos dentro de una historia contada en un vídeo juego , lleno de matices y complejidades La historia engancha desde el minuto uno , la jugabilidad muestra avances claros , decenas de movimientos capturados
"Preconceituíche" precisa falar mais ? Já perdeu a graça só de mandar essa, nem vou jogar mais onde já se viu quem têm preconceito com um sanduíche coitado mo delícia de frango. Jogo repleto de lacres, maconha, fascismo, sapatagem, ideologia de genero, grávida pulando de 5 metros de altura hahaha QUE IDIOTA . Esse jogo é um mar de chorume
They destroyed the story to propagate their SJW woke agenda. I understand LGBTQ issues are important but not at the cost of completely writing a contrived, nonsensical, predictable and downright joke of a plot. Not only this but they destroyed the beloved characters from the first game. Neil Druckman and whoever else is responsible for this catastrophe should be FIRED.

The most divisive game, probably in the history of video games. TLOU2 and its creators definitely don't deserve the hate that comes to them right now. I do not think it is is a masterpiece, or a 10/10, because I agree that there are pacing flaws, but 90% of the game works for me. It is bold, raw and something completely different than what we ever experienced, and at least for that it has to be praised. The true story of true people. The harsh true of consequences of our actions. Yeah, and the graphics and sound are amazing too... obviously. So, technical side 10/10 Story and pacing 8/10 Don't judge the game before you finish it and please never think you know and love all those characters more than creators and actors themselves,
simply a waste of time, during the passage of the game, you feel like you were scammed, one could say that the graphics are excellent and others, but what they put in their efforts to that, it took everything from the story, which culminates in a disgusting way, and disappointing, please I hope they don't get this piece of **** out for the ps5, because they would be just wasting their money
The game is an absolute masterpiece. the gameplay is excellent : the animation are super fluid and smooth resulting in satisfying responsive melee and dodging and moving animations (crawling...) / the AI are incredibly realistic which further enhances immersion / the physics are indredible / the destruction elements are awesome/ the innovative motion matching animation system is done to perfection-same with the innovative crawling system (that's differnet from cod)-innovative sneaking between objects system that enables players to sneak between litterally anything resulting in even more immersive and dynamic experience and full control over the expansive detailed environments and parkour . this game further proves how naughty dog are masters of 3A games with masterful crafting of well excecuted masterpieces that remain memorable for ages . another ND Work Of Art 10/10 .
Almost every game is reviewed as a whole.. because, well, they are meant to be experienced that way. But this isn't one of those. It should be broken down into two categories: the story and the gameplay. I've played through it 3 times now. The first time was the full game - cutscenes included. And from start to finish the score fluctuated. But as the game went on, it just became drawn out and monotonous. When reaching certain climaxes, you revert back to what almost feels like an eternity ago. Which literally is 2 hours into the game. And it ruins the pacing of the game too much. After playing through it initially, I wasn't sure I would be able to play it again. But luckily this game has skippable cutscenes. Which brings me to category two of how this game should be played. When you don't see the story and in a sense, it's just 1 long gameplay sequence, the pacing doesn't feel bothersome. The story that tries to force you to feel a certain way, can for the most part, be ignored if you choose the character(s) you're playing aren't part of any narrative. With that said, in the latter part of the game, I feel like the characters are boring and not as interesting as the ones you meet in the first half.. and at times, even come off as annoying. However, when you don't have to see their story entirely and can skip it, you experience a great game that is a solid 9/10, if you loved The Last of Us. But that's unfortunately the problem. The story itself is just trying to tell you that you can't pick sides. You need to understand everything before you choose. It's like a sad attempt at begging. One half of the story is telling you this is why you're taking this journey. Then the second half tells you that this journey should not be taken. The writing is just bad and that's why a side must always be taken. Even if it isn't the right. Who knew Bungie's writing with Destiny would be better than a Naughty Dog game? At least they understand how satisfaction works in video games. After a 25 hour game that had its ups and downs, it needed a solid, fulfilling ending.. but unfortunately, it was just lifeless with no reward for your time spent. It tried to be deep, but deeply failed.
This game is a masterpiece, just because you don’t agree with what happens at the beginning doesn’t mean you have to dump on the game, actually try playing and finishing the game before calling the story mediocre

I have been playing video games since PS1, this game has the most moving, thought-provoking and transformative story I have ever experienced. I loved this game from start to finish. Each "chapter" was a step-up from the one before it. Almost everyone agrees the gameplay and graphics are outstanding. However, for me, the story is the best thing about this game. It is moving. It is different. It is not the good-guy-kills-the-bad-guy cliché. You see the story from the perspective of the person you think is the bad guy. It makes you think about the consequences of the actions you did in the first game as the "hero" of that story. It makes you think a lot. Both Ellie and Abby lose a lot as a result of this cycle of violence, which Ellie decides to break at the end. It's a story of love, hate, revenge, and forgiveness. When Ellie was drowning Abby at the end, I was saying to myself please Ellie, don't kill her. I was glad she didn't. I might've shed a tear or two. It was the perfect ending to a transformative and moving story.
When a story spoils the rest of the game. Graphics are fine, mechanics also, even if it is a little repetitive, but it lacks the main reason that made the first game amazing: The story. There are three points that make it bad. The first is how they waste the potential of everything about the first game (characters, Ellie being the cure, etc) for a not well motivated revenge. The second is that the plot has too many fails, like Joel being careless all the game, not how he was in the first game. The last one is the SJW agenda, like, for example, trying to make christians like bad people of a cult. Considering that in this kind of game the story is the main aspect, it made the whole game be a lot worse, even with technical aspects really good.
The game has amazing graphics, challenging, smooth gameplay, a beautiful setting that makes you want to be there just to appreciate the beauty. But where the game shines in this elements, it completely lacks in story telling, narrative, and characters. For some weird reason its told in disorder,, meaning that when you kill some characters in the first part, you dont even care, since you never cknnected with them until the second part. Ellie just isnt the one that we knew in the first game, and neither is Joel, both make stupid choices that they would have never done. Abby isnt a like able villain/protagonista, she has a very stupid motive for wanting them both dead, and it doesnt make you connect with her by just playing as her, what made Neil Druckman believe that was the case? No clue. Aside from them there are a few likable characters, like Jesse, Dina and the dog. However the story telling is just bad, terrible, the whole game happens for nothing, the purpose of the game isnt acjieved and not by your choice, but the writters, what was the point of playing it then? Aside from that they really didnt cared ripping off Mulan, those who have played know what I mean by that. The game is just lacking, it makes you make some **** choices, and then makes you feel bad about it, just because. I dont know who told Neil Druckman thats how you write a good story, but it certainely wasnt Amy Hennig, Craig Houston, Kojima, María e Krawczyk,, etc..

Amazing scenery, atmosphere and state of the art visuals, only to be ruined by a crude political agenda, which lately seems to make its way aggressively into the video games industry. The story is trash. Shove your politics down your throat and keep them out of our games. We pay to leave this world not take it with us.
i give it a 6 because in terms of graphics and gameplay the game is good. but the story sucks horribly. This game is like a beatifull cake that tastes like ****
Just finished. I wasn't sure where the story was going for a bit. But boy am I impressed with it. It did not have the hope/grief rollercoaster of the first game. It just made me feel dull and empty and profoundly sad at the end. But that was the point right? Vengeance is a terribly bad idea, yet completely understandable and supportable. Cycle of violence and whatnot. Revenge is how worlds go to **** Message received naughty dog. And thank you for this very fun game. P.s. Bit buggy sometimes :-/ never game breaking tho.



To all game developers please take note on how to not make a sequel, this is by far the worst way to butcher a title beloved by millions of people worldwide, the disconnect between the developers and the fan base is worlds apart, in which world where Naughty Dog thought that the events took place in this sequel were going to be okay or even tolerable by fans, between the lazy story writing and the forced agenda being shoved in our throats all is left to say is RIP TLOU and on to the next one
The game play works well the environment/graphics are some of the best I ever seen. The voice acting is very well done. The gun customization is vast. The parts people are yelling and crying about like Ellie being lesbian are in no way braking the game. Yes Joel died the way it was done made me sick. The flash backs to when Ellie was younger are the best parts of the game. before you say you like it or not try the game.

Amazing game. Unrelenting and intriguing story with complex characters. Graphics and gameplay are unlike any other game making this a truly unique ride of a game.
A Game that destroys a beloved character with a half decent story. Game felt so drawn out and forced you into loving a character that murders the life and blood of the first game. I still enjoyed the play through but it felt exactly the same as the last game with a butchered storyline. The story was at best decent. Really weird and uncomfortable sex scene with the character you don’t really care about. I mean I guess it’s nice to see the other side.... Honestly, the game was just weird and so slow. My god was it slow. Like a weird love story with infected thrown in it. I give it a 71 out of 100.


I would first like to state that this is going to be completely serious, no memeing around. The Last of Us II, is honestly breathtaking and fantastic. The story is amazing, from the extreme highs of happiness, to the very lows of heartbreak; the game has it all. I am not ashamed to admit that I have cried three times during my first playthrough of the game. 65 hours in, and I still have more to discover. The game is not for the faint of heart, and I say this with extreme sincerity. If you suffer from mental illness, this game may make your depression worse at parts, especially if you played through the first game. The staff at naughty dog really outdid themselves. With a revised combat system, making you feel both more confident and much more tense going into confrontations. The infected pose more of a threat and do not feel like you are fighting blind 100 year old dogs there is an actual feel of anxiety that you get from gauging the enemies and your own character. With breathtaking scenery and infinite possibilities for every confrontation, you will always be on your toes.
I never give a fukc on other opinions, but this one, it saddens me that the game is undervalued because of just pure Bull Sheet and entitled gamers. So to balance things out here is my take. The game doesn't deserve this score bombing. The story needs to be understood. You need to pay attention to the sequence of events so you can appreciate the brilliance of the storytelling for this game. I want to replay it again but the story hits me hard, that I need to cope with this feeling for days before I will do my second playthrough. I already have beaten the game in survivor though. The story is soul-crushing, it cuts deep. You will wish you have taken this action instead of that because, in the blink of an eye, that opportunity could be lost. This game is mainly about Ellie's relationship with Joel. Secondly, this game is all about the act of "that" that every person has. If you play the game, you will understand why Ellie is eager to seek revenge despite what happened that night prior to Joel's death (this is on the last minutes of the game). The ending is more bittersweet than the first one that I really wish there will be a part 3. I feel how Ellie feels right now. [Good] Attack dogs Enemies improved a lot compared to the first game, they will try to get behind your back. Stalkers fully realized in this game, I've never seen a stalker on the first game. I like how they added hand to hand combat. I wish they will improve this on the next one "hopefully" Graphics - do I need to say more? [Bad] I encounter a bug in the aquarium after I fell from the vent. Abby's movement feels clunky sometimes, sometimes it will cause your death. The weapon slotting is quite confusing I'm glad that I never turned my back on this game despite all the bad impressions it got over the last couple of months. I hold my trust to Naughty Dog and they never failed to impress me yet. MASTERPIECE INDEED

Ok so I finally got around to playing it after largely being able to stay blind to everything. The only thing I knew for sure was that thered be another playable character. First let's state the obvious. The game looks absolutely phenomenal. There no denying that. Also at least for me I didn't have any sort of bugs or glitches in my playthrough, that's another plus. The voice acting was top tier. However, for me the story just didn't work. Im not going to sit here complaining about narrative choices that the developer made. Be it Joel's death or the lengthy play time as abby. They can do whatever it is they want with it. That being said it doesn't mean I have to enjoy it or have fun playing it and I didn't. Personally I feel I would have enjoyed the story more if it was a tv series or movie as opposed to a game. It just didn't have that same "something " that the first game did. Ultimately I play video games to have fun and this game just isn't fun. Clearly its not meant to be and that's ok. Its just not for me.
Stunning visuals, great acting and music, ok gameplay. The writing however is a disgrace and the story is an insult to the original game. The writers went for shock value, perhaps due to lack of creativity or fear to produce nothing better than a mediocre continuation to the beloved first game. They ruined both characters of Joel and Ellie and introduced far weaker new characters. All without conveying any significant message. I feel sorry for all the people at Naughty Dog that had to work on this. Shame on the Directors.
Excellent work when talking about game engine, game play, the acting, etc... However... they destroyed the fine story they previously created with the last of us and the DLC. Joel shouldn’t be tortured and killed that way. And we shouldn’t have to play with the person who did it. ( I don’t really care about the collateral damage he did - just felt like watching Austin Powers when they turned to show the friends and family of the bad guy who was killed by Austin. The point is, who cares about the bad guys? **** them. Same to Abby and her dad. And I had to play half the game with that **** only to see she going away alive in the end. **** it. Someone was even sadistic to make Ellie lose fingers and made you try to play the guitar at the end. Seriously. Bad story. Totally disappointed.

Bueno, El creador dice que los juegos no son para divertirse, bueno, si tienes las posibilidades de crear un juego y haces esto, supongo que está bien, aún cuando la misma consola impulsa la diversión y el entretenimiento no se que pensar
Acabei de zerar The Last of Us Part II. Que jogo meus amigos, que jogo. Gráficos lindíssimos, jogabilidade muito boa e trilha sonora magnífica. Eu sei que teve gente que não gostou da história. Eu particularmente gostei muito. A maneira que o jogo te envolve é absurda. Confesso que chorei no final.

Bueno, El creador dice que los juegos no son para divertirse, bueno, si tienes las posibilidades de crear un juego y haces esto, supongo que está bien, aún cuando la misma consola impulsa la diversión y el entretenimiento no se que pensar
Acabei de zerar The Last of Us Part II. Que jogo meus amigos, que jogo. Gráficos lindíssimos, jogabilidade muito boa e trilha sonora magnífica. Eu sei que teve gente que não gostou da história. Eu particularmente gostei muito. A maneira que o jogo te envolve é absurda. Confesso que chorei no final.

What can I say ... I took the time to finish the game in almost forty hours, I am a nosy type, and I gave myself the time to give my opinion without too much hype, so my verdict: I start with the negative: - Unfortunately the soundtrack which is almost not present, one of the highlights of the 1st opus was the OST, except that there, rare the occasions where it made an impact on me. - The second point is that at the time I felt a little deja vu and repetitivity. -The AI level always remains so, enemies humans or monsters are predictable. The positive: - Script and story, that's what I expect from a narrative game, bringing realism and getting out of the predictable, i mean the world We know is not the same for those people, it's a jungle law, every single one of them been trough a lot to SURVIVE, and that's why some actions seem almost natural for them, I salute the staff for the audacity, If they think of a sequel, I wish them good luck .. - The characters are great, I got attached to them(el hombre: Manny is too cool) - Graphics, nothing breathtaking. but it's good. - Game-play, following the first installment, RAS, easy to use and effective.
I give this game 1 as score solely for the fact that the graphic is amazing. The story is a forced agenda by naughty dog and you can clearly see that if you played and loved the first chapter. I can't believe what I saw in this game it's a disgusting thing, ND you should be ashamed of yourself of the betrayed act you have done to you're fans.
Been a naughty dog fan since uncharted 1. Loved the last of us 1. I was waiting excitedly for the follow up. Unfortunately they ruined the story and I will now pretend the last of us part 2 doesn’t exist. It does however have pretty graphics though so a 1 instead of 0. I hope naughty dog gets out of this rut or they hand off the uncharted series to a game studio that will do it justice.
The game looks amazing, the mechanics are amazing but they destroyed it with a **** story. a story that so stupid and bad written that it succeed to destroy the game that could have been easily the best game ever.
The best game of 2020 until someone proves otherwise. Technical elements of gameplay never seen in any other game. An exemplary level of polishing. An absolutely mature and bold outcome, a huge reflection on the human being. Strong and intense story. A game about people, about human behavior. Sensitive and brutal. Inviting and challenging. The industry needs games with this level of excellence.

Really good start, but dragged on and on. Story was sloppy, and I couldn't care less about Abby and her friends. The fireflies are dead lets just move on. I didn't care about her story, I was there because of Ellie and Joel. And the scenes with them were the best parts of the game. It was fun seeing Ellie kill Abby over and over again, so thanks for that ND.
Diversity in games and media is great. Blatantly forced diversity and identity politics in games gets you this product. Couple that with a complete lack of respect for beloved characters and a revenge story that any given person could come up with and you get The Last of Us 2. This company should be ashamed of themselves for treating this franchise and it's fans this way. At this point, I think that treating the fans this way was the point all along.

The game has all it needs to be GOTY this year, best graphics, gameplay, voice acting and story. Yes STORY because is not fan service, is not what you expected. Haters that review bombed this sucks. Just play the game. I love Joel but I don't have a say if he lives or die.
Where to begin with this beautiful dumpster fire... It's amazing blend of graphics, mechanics, and attention to detail are completely wasted on a disjointed and insultingly pretentious storyline and character development. The decision to not only try and convince the player to empathize with uninspiring new characters, but also dedicate half of the game to them comes off less as an exercise in the morality of revenge and more of a forced and emotionless disincentive to the overall game. As if the second half of the game spent with the new characters wasn't annoying enough, the illogical ending cements this game as the greatest creative failure in recent memory. But again, graphics were good...
Just didn’t hit home with me. Gameplay was fine. But story felt not needed to be told. There one part at the start of the game that’s out of place and it sets the whole game in Motion
There is beauty to be found but I didn't connect to the over all story's 0 desired to every play it again because of that, which is a shame. I platinumed the first game twice (PS3/PS4) this is the first time naughty dog really let me down :(
This game is about the story of Joel and Ellie, and what they did with Joel couldn't be worse. From the point that they decided to kill him, I already lost interest in the story and when playing as Abby, her story left me completely indifferent. It's all about team Joel and Ellie for me.


Un des meilleurs jeux auxquels j'ai pu jouer. Tout d'abord, graphiquement, ce jeu est le plus réussi de notre génération. Vous pouvez lancer Metro Exodus en ultra avec Raytracing sur votre PC à 2000 euros, vous n'aurez pas une once de la beauté que ce jeu peu vous proposer. Le nombre incalculable de détails rendent ce jeu plus réaliste que jamais. Vous n'aurez pas affaire qu'à des textures extrêmement bien travaillées, cela, de nombreux studios savent le faire. Ici, ce monde est palpable tant le soucis du détails le rend concret. Le jeu profite de l'univers musical de l'opus précédent, avec de nouveaux thèmes dans le même styles. Concernant le sound design, c'est ce qui ce fait de mieux dans le réalisme et la cohérence des sons qui vous entourent. Du point de vue du gameplay : Oui vous aurez à explorer toute la carte et ouvrir tous les tiroirs possibles et imaginables si vous comptez survivre dans une difficulté élevée. Oui, les combats sont moins spectaculaires que God of War ou Uncharted Mais les combats vous donneront du fil à retordre, ils ne se dérouleront jamais de la même façon grâce à une des intelligences artificielles les plus réussies. Vous ressentirez la violence de la mort que vous semez, l'idée étant de servir la palette d'émotions immenses que le jeu vous offre Concernant l'histoire : Le grand point fort de ce jeu est ici, l'histoire, ce que les scénaristes et le réalisateur ont voulu nous faire ressentir. Cette partie du jeu le propulse tout simplement au rang de chef d'oeuvre. J'écrivais auparavant concernant la palette d'émotions que vous fait ressentir le jeu, vous n'êtes réellement pas prêt. Vous allez ressentir de la rage, de la haine, de l'apaisement, du dégoût, de la peur, de la déception, de l'émerveillement, et à nouveau de la haine et de la rage, pour finir sur de la compassion et de l'empathie. Aucun jeu n'avait réussi à pousser à ce point l'expérience émotionnelle liée à un jeu vidéo. En plus de l'écriture, les excellents acteurs permettent de vraiment vous impliquer dans l'histoire. Le jeu vous laisse un mélange de sentiments étrange lorsque vous le finirez : Tout d'abord, l'accomplissement d'une quête relativement difficile selon la difficulté choisie. La haine, la tristesse et une once de bonheur, liés à l'histoire que vous venez de vivre. Vous ressentirez également un sentiment de manque, tout d'abord concernant les événements et les personnages que vous avez rencontrés. Mais également un sentiment de manque, de se dire que l'on ne jouera pas à un chef d'oeuvre, de cette envergure et de cette puissance, avant des années.

This is undoubtedly one of the most polarizing games ever. It also happens to be one the best games I have ever played. Why there's such a huge disparity between the user and critic reviews doesn't surprise me at all -- people are reactionary. Once word got out that one of the most celebrated video game protagonists of all time was killed in such brutal fashion AND players were expected play as his killer, the game was irredeemable. Ellie's sexuality and Abby's masculine figure were just the cherry on top of a clear dumpster fire. It just so happens that all of those disjointed elements came together to form a masterpiece. Naughty Dog decided that a cliched storyline would be too simple -- so they decided to go against the grain and create one of the most f*cked up video game stories I've ever experienced.. and I'm glad they did. I remember watching Abby impale Joel's skull numerous times before finally putting him out of his misery right in front of Ellie. In that moment, I hated Abby just as much as you could anyone. She definitely felt "irredeemable" at that moment in time. Through phenomenal character development and plot direction, we somehow eventually come to empathize with Abby. We don't necessarily forgive her for murdering Joel, but we do understand why she did it and at least try to work past it. It takes Ellie murdering all of Abby's close friends and acquaintances to arrive to a similar judgement. Near the end, in Ellie's gritty encounter with Abby at the beach, we don't want either character to die. By that point, they've both been robbed of (almost) everything they had, and revenge was nothing more than a moot point. I quite enjoyed the ending as well. It isn't a happy ending, but it's one that gives gravity to all of the choices made throughout the game. The overwhelming feeling is "emptiness", but Naughty Dog has left a lot to our own imagination, along with a strong possibility for a third game. In the end, the parts of the game that linger with me are: Outstanding graphics - beautiful scenery, stellar facial animations Top-notch voice acting - as expected with Naughty Dog Amazing score - especially in regards to the acoustics Impactful story - it's emotional, brutal, and raw, blurs the line between gaming and movies Gameplay - major improvement from the first, really intelligent enemy AI and fun stealth/gunplay At the end of the day, The Last of Us 2 has a leg up on its predecessor and is in my Top 10 of this generation's games. It's one of my favorite cinematic games, up there with Uncharted 4, but factoring in the graphics, story, and gameplay, it's absolutely a must-play for anyone. 10/10
Disgusting! The plot, gameplay, idea - all minus! The game should primarily be a game, and not the promotion of their ideas by one specific person who does not give a damn about the fans of the series!
I am very disappointed. Especially because we were lied to with fake stories in the trailers. This part has nothing to do with the first part. it's humiliating for us players because we didn't expect it like that at all. We have to play the killer of our favorite player who has never been introduced and are forced to feel empathy even though we hate her all the time. And especially the end was the last drop that overflowed the barrel. I could still write a lot but the field is too short for that. Just like others, I pretend that the second part doesn't exist. 1 point goes for the Details & Graphics
you wait 7 years to play your beloved character and then at the first 2 hour when even tutorial is not finished they kill him in a way that he was some non playable character that we barley remember from the first game.they just lift him by his collar spit on him and toss him out. after being angry you decide to wait so that maybe they give you a satisfaction that was worth seeing him die but what directors wanted that satisfaction and the big ending to be is is "ending the cycle of violence" which is really hard to understand. as ellie you kill more than 100 people to get to kill a specific person and when you get to her you don't kill her? the other half of the game which you play as abby you don't connect with her and feel any sort of sympathy with her. it just doesn't work no matter how hard you try. it was story better if remained untold. i also want to say that being a game that had a "lesbian female lead" didn't play any role in ruining the game. i actually think the dina-ellie relationship is the highlight of the game. the reason its so bad is the narrative,plot holes and being a completely unnecessary irrelevant unrelatable story that was better to remain as a mere idea
This game has such terrible writing that it amazes me how the heck did it even get approved by anyone in the development team. The game play is decent but gets stale very quickly. Abby as a character sucks and should have never been implemented. The stupid agenda that they tried to push on this game will be its ultimate downfall in the long run. This game had the potential to be one of the greatest games of the generation but its one of the worst if not the worst game of its generation and maybe of all time. The only think that i admire are the graphics and sound design. In my opinion they nailed that and its a shame that such a beautiful game in therms of visuals has such a stupid, blank and very poorly written story with too many plot holes to count. The ending is by far the worst part of it. What a **** ending.
el juego es el mejor los pequeños detalles y la historia pero ay algunos detalles que falta resolver como adonde fue dina que paso con tomy y su matrimonio eso como ay huecos que resolver
CW shows have better writing very disappointing, spits at what made the first great. Naughty dogs false flaging as well as false advertising is mess up.
Everything really has already been said about this. I just believe it is a mediocre entry to what could have been an amazing franchise. Visuals - 10 Gameplay - 6 (not much has changed from previous game) Story - 3 (Too much unnecessary / undeserved subversion of expectation), just poor writing in general. Soundtrack - 9
I did enjoy some parts of this game, especially the gameplay and the combat (man the violence is amazing), including the unmatched animation and sound design for the game. However, the story and the pacing of this game is so bad that it makes me wonder if it this would be a better game without the story and just an open world, horde-mode spin-off of the original one (since, you know, the combat is so satisfying).

I must say, the game is a masterpiece graphically and animation-wise, but the story, its too much... Many people say its amazing, some terrible, the only reason i gave it a 7 was because its a 5 for the story and 9 for the graphics and visuals, meaning a 7 average. The first game is literally my favorite game of all time. This took the first games ideology of characters, and threw it in the trash.. The game relies WAY too much on looking for notes and writings to give story details instead of giving us the details up front. I agree a game shouldn't spoonfeed us details, but about half of all the games story is taken into writings and notes instead of actual dialogue. They focused so much on us liking Abby that we barely got to see character development from Ellie and Dina, even Tommy too. For tommy to survive a bullet to the back of the head (and exits the other side) its actually the dumbest thing the game could do in my opinion. The game needed Tommy alive, but realized he was underused so they put him into the situation that "killed him" then he survived. It's a mix of emotions, but it never should have happened. Abby and her friends are focused on too much for most peoples liking. The games message is that there are 2 sides to every story, and revenge isnt the answer, but guess what? We didn't like Abbys side to the story, and the entire game is based on revenge you never get. The ending is an obvious bridge into a part 3 that it takes emotional progression out. The death of Joel was poorly done, and ive heard the argument "yes he would say who he was, hes changed since the last game." But people forget that its only a 4 year gap between the games, and that the infections been out for 24+ years at that point, so what happened in those 4 years that made joel turn into a super helpful, honest person?? Yes, Jackson way have been different, but the point that they gave away names, location of Jackson, and their supplies away to strangers makes no sense whatsoever. The game has many plot holes in it too.. too many to count. The ending wasn't anything special, it made us hate the ending, which i believe thats what they were going for, but its no excuse to make a bridge into part 3, and completely disregard the entire story of Part 2 before that. Dina risked her life so many times and Ellie helped her so many times, but for what? Another thing is why do the developers expect us to like the long second half of the game (mainly Abby)?? It's filled with boring cutscenes, irrelevant puzzles, and helping out Seraphites for no reason other than they saved her. It broke my heart playing the game the first time, I had to play it again to see if i missed anything and if i was going crazy that they truly did this to a what-could've-been amazing series. The people who find this game to be a masterpiece lie to you, deny flaws, and crap on any opinions against the game, which is another dealbreaker for me. This could've been game of the decade, but instead they went and took any love for the series and threw it out the window. This game IS NOT for the casual gamer, for it asks way too much of you, takes up too much time, makes you forget scenes because it will have a flashback or something else right when conflict reaches a peak, or just doesn't focus on the story. You have to be attentive to this game 24/7 to catch every detail you need. I beg to anyone who decides to play this game to please not deny the flaws, for criticism is the only way we will be able to see improvements in the next game. Thank you
Nota 8,5 (Mais pra 9 do que pra 8) - Prós: O Melhor Gráfico de Personagens já visto na história (da Ambientação e Texturas nem tanto); Jogabilidade parecida com o Primeiro Jogo (O que é bom); Inteligência Artificial dos Inimigos é Excelente; A História do Jogo é contada de uma maneira bem Interessante; Assim como no Primeiro Jogo, Os Personagens são o Ponto Principal, com Backgrounds Excelentes; A Dublagem em PT-BR é tão Boa quanto a do Anterior; A História do Jogo é o que Divide a Opinião dos Jogadores (Quem não gostou diz que o Jogo é Nota Zero, sem levar em conta todas as coisas boas do Jogo), Concordando com Ela ou não, Ela cumpre o Seu Papel e é digna de Hollywood - Contras: O Produtor do Jogo quis Politizar o Jogo o Tempo Todo, É Irritante o quanto ele força as suas Ideologias. Infelizmente isso se tornará cada vez mais comum na Nossa Sociedade, forçando as pessoas a consumir conteúdos com cunho politico o tempo todo; O Fato é que mesmo a História sendo uma Imposição de Ideologia, ela é bem contada, funcionando no final e Cumprindo o seu papel Ideológico (Mas isso não tira o fato dela ser ruim); Perderam uma Grande Oportunidade de Criar mais Acontecimentos que façam uma Ligação com o Ato 1 e 2 do Jogo, como Explosões, ou algo do tipo! - Resumo: É Um Excelente Jogo, um dos Melhores da Geração, Com gráficos Excelentes com Uma História que Divide Opiniões: Os que gostarem vão dar Nota 9 ou 10 e os que não gostarem vão dizer que o Jogo é Nota Zero, 1, 2... deixando todo o Excelente Trabalho Técnico de Lado. Eu Odiei o Fato do Produtor Impor a Sua Ideologia no Jogo, é Irritante e Destrói tudo que foi feito no Primeiro Jogo, mas entendo que ele teve que fazer para conseguir criar a Longa História desse jogo e que isso vai se tornar cada vez mais Comum na Cultura Pop, Gostei da Forma como a História foi Contada porém Odiei o Seu Conteúdo! (Mas Sou Inteligente o Suficiente para Separar as Coisas)
A lot of people really liked this game, and that's cool. Personally I really didn't. The game is emotionally impactful for all the wrong reasons. Character personalities were developed off screen which is a huge no no. Worst ending to a game I've seen since ME3.
TLOU2 is the biggest disappointment of the 7 year! If you really love first part, Joel and Ellie story - dont buy this game. This game is a bad dream! JOELDESERVEBETTER
As a trans person I found the characterization of Lev as pretty lame. His entire purpose in the game was to be a prop for Abby's redemption arc. Lev literally has no personality or story to him other than being a victim to transphobia by his people. This isn't the kind of trans representation that does anyone any favors. Also, if the point of the story is that "revenge is bad", would it have been more powerful for Abby to realize that in relation to Joel? The graphics were great and some of the gameplay was fun, but overall a big disappointment. Pass on this game. Wait for it to hit the bargain bin.
Лучшая игра поколения,сюжет и геймплей на высшем уровне. ЛГБТ в игре хватает,но не навязывают,
Loved the first game. Have given up after the first 8-9 hours on the second. It's nothing but a celebration of absolute depression and ultra-violence. Awful story. Characters that you hate. Violence that's way over the top. Messages rammed repeatedly down the player's throat. Naughty Dog has done everything to subvert the players' expectation of the sequel but as a result, have created a most unenjoyable experience. If you enjoyed the first one make sure to avoid this sequel. It's awful.

The graphics and visuals of the game look nice. Voice acting is good, but the story sucks and Abby is a very unlikable and unsympathetic character. Joel's death makes no sense when you've played the first game. In the first game Joel runs a guy who is pretending to be sick just because he didn't trust a stranger. But in the second game he just gives his name to a group of strangers who he just met which leads to him getting killed. They try to force you to like Abby and make Ellie look like the bad guy. Example, Anby is shown playing with a dog while Ellie is killing dogs left and right. Abby's crew are also unlikable and uninteresting characters. There is a pregnant woman in Abby's crew that insists on being on the frontlines instead of staying at base to care for her unborn child. She is needlessly putting the health and wellbeing of her unborn child at risk for a reason I'm not sure, I find this to be a very stupid thing to do. Just stay at base until your baby is born.
Game starts great following great story, gameplay, voice acting, graphics and music just like in first game. Unfortunately they made it too long (all gameplay after first boss fight is not necessary), going to the end game looks much like uncharted or tomb raider than TOLU (car chases, shooting like COD) and ultry stupid ending. Generally I like story and how it begins, but going to the end they lost it leading to stupid ending! GFX: 10 Sound/Voice acting: 10 Gameplay: 8 Story: 6
The world you know is in ruins, everything is destroyed. But there is one hope, one girl, whose is immune to this virus and can start repopulatıng earth with chıldren who are immune to this virus as well. Hey this can save us! Well no, according to director Neil, this is not good enough. He decided to make our immune, only hope girl to a lesbian. First game was full of great story, details, characters. Now our dude Neil abandon everything and aim for one thing. Pleasing LGBT community. This game has one purpose and its about putting unnecessary LGBT propaganda into every corner of the game. No than you. I am not against LGBT rights but i will not stand and do nothing when political correctness comes for my favourite games. Go seek your shelter at netflix.

This is a very technically sound game. Runs great, feels great, looks great. Voice acting top notch, action is there, etc etc. Which unlike a lot of people, I cant make myself give this a 0-3 rating. Its just not that. However, that is where it ends. I absolutely hated the story. Abby is just not a good character no matter how you twist it. She sucks. I have zero interest in a part with involving her. I played the first game once and beat it, enjoyed it, and was happy to see a part two. Man, what a 360 though. Unfortunate the writers decided to take this route, but is what it is.
Beautiful Environments, Amazing graphics and good music , but a very bad story and i found it had too many political messages . I'v not finished the game but i'm 11 hours in and it doesn't seem to be improving. Also from the trailer i was under the impressions Joel was going to be a playable character ....


A journey unlike any other. The visuals and sound are second-to-none, immersive to my core. The game play is purposeful, tense, exciting, and brutal. Improved upon the original in every way. But the story is the real stand out. This game is the most challenging in what it asks you to feel and think. As you watch these characters grow you'll have to grow, too. That's very demanding and i think it's the root of why the reviews are so divided. In the end, I am confident this game will be remembered as one of the best of the generation.

A masterpiece, both in gameplay and narrative. My favorite point is in the construction of the scenarios and search for resources, generating even more immersion in the world when compared to the first game. Don't mind the bomb reviews, mostly of them is from people who hasn't play the game, play and draw your conclusions, certainly among the best games of the generation!
So, it’s been a few days since I finished the last of us part II. I honestly had to take the time to digest what I’ve witnessed during my 21hr play through. The game is what it is. It’s not perfect the story is debatable on what you take from it. Whether you believe they should have kept Joel alive or killed him. The story throwing you into a character that took the life of a character we’ve only been waiting seven years to get back in the control of, which I won’t lie it boiled me up from the moment it happened. The game is beautiful, the gameplay is even better. I love every moment of feeling that if I make one wrong move I’m gonna end up getting killed. The non infected characters (Scars, WLF) etc. are intelligent in their attempts to see you die. Crawling around and staying out of sight trying to lead dogs away from your scent and picking each enemy off one by one. But when things go pear shaped the enemies attack you relentlessly and reacted to each other being killed by shouting their names. I honestly think the gameplay made up for a lot of the story. The cutscenes are very long and sometimes drag a bit. I felt like i was itching all the time to jump back into gameplay. We got to witness Ellie face a lot of adversities during her 3 days in Seattle but she ultimately came out of this on the worse end and loses absolutely everything. When the credits role I felt like is that it? I spent twenty one hours playing to just end up with one of the worst endings in a game ever. Yes, I get it Ellie couldn’t live with herself not revenging or gaining closure for someone she held so dear as her father figure. I think this game is something everyone should experience as a playstation gamer it’s the tip of the mountain of how far this current gen can push the console to its limits. This isn’t for everyone and it’s not the first game in anyway. But look everyone has the right to their own opinions so go enjoy the game. Thank you! Neil Druckman, Troy Baker, Ashley Johnson, Jeffrey Pierce.
Outside of the one death everyone hated, this game was a masterpiece, each gameplay element had me wanting more, the cutscenes were movie quality as if I were watching in theatres. I'm sick of people not giving games like this a chance and I am convinced naughty dog are one of the best game companies out there

stunning graphics however the story flopped hard than my slipper lol, although the first game is pure quality but the sequel is a mess without care of the characters which is a big shame... RIP Naughty Dog
To be fair, the game is not that bad, only in terms of gameplay. The problem here lies in the storyline. Lots of fans (just like me) were not interested in playing Abby. The way the game tries have you to empathize with her is just pathetic. Abby's point of view, wasnt even that immersive. And they forced u to beat Ellie up, "kill" Joel... for me, it was not a story to enjoy, since E&J were the main reason why I bought the game. The game fails miserabily also in the ending. All the suffering and sacrifices from Ellie, made no sense in the end. I get it NG, REVENGE IS BAD, but also bad writing, imposing agendas and changing chars behaviour just to have the "story" go the way u want it to go. The story could have so much potential: Joel's death could have been developed much much better. it's so bitter to see your MC from the first game being killed (just for a story trope), by a random antagonist just introduced. I think most of the players wanted to see the development in Ellie and Joel relationship, and how the whole choice about saving Ellie's life could have changed and progressed between the two. We get just a little chat about that, but nothing more. And, about the side characters. just crap, Unlike the original ones. The old characters, are so diverse from the 1st game, its so sad to see how they changed them just to fit their agenda. Finally, save ur money. See some streamer play it, it doesnt deserve time.
First off, I’ll start by saying that the gameplay and immersion are amazing. However, for a game as linear as LOU2, the story really makes a difference, and that’s where this game miserably fails. The story is a mess, and the writers are trying to be clever, when they clearly aren’t.
I have not finished it yet. In fact I restarted it after it did a weird thing where all the enemies were stood still and, when I snuck up on them. I did this Scarecrow thing behind them. But I am loving it. I also read some of the user scores reviews on metacritic. Pretty much all of them were put up on the day of release. Meaning most of them instead of playing the game were probably sat at their PC waiting to put a negative on it after seeing the spoilers haha. All these reviews about how bad the story and, the ending are. All posted on the day of release. Just means that none of them actually played the game. Yes Joel dies. It's all to move the story on. Yes its upsetting but have none of you watched the walking dead?
Тоже самое, что и с Death Stranding - напалма на всех не хватает и на лайкеров и на дизлайкеров ))). Радует, только одно, что рыночные отношения никто не отменял - победит тот, у кого хорошие продажи. Им и решать. Многие игроки старой школы не готовы к изменениям в игровой индустрии - часть игр становится более реалистичными и аутентичными по видению их авторов (уж очень много опытных разработчиков стало в мире). Некоторые ААА-игры теперь не развлечения с "вау-эффектом крутости" и с приходом реализма, в них раскрываются свои нюансы видения авторов. Пусть решают продажи.
This is by far the worse game ever made this year. Joel have survive this long in part 1 to know not to trust anyone but the devs have to take side with LGBT and the down syndrome side of the world to try to make their game "special" guess what you're all failures and the game does not deserve to even exist. What did you think would happen by making Joel die by the hand of SJW? The storyline sucks the choices that the main character makes is not the brightest who the f* came up with this story plot??

Graphics: 10/10 Sound: 10/10 Game World: 10/10 Performances: 10/10 Gameplay: 7/10 Story: 2/10 Being a story driven game, TLOU2 is one of the biggest disappointments of the current console generation. It's not that I don't agree with certain story decision. They just executed it poorly. NONE of the characters live up to the quality of the first game. The plot is manipulative, way too overcrowded with subplots and unnecessary love triangles. While exploring the game world and discovering all the tiny secrets is fun, I hated to see how the story unfolded. Some details to explain why I really didn't like the story: Abby: I get what they were going for. And I'm not mad because she kills Joel. But making me hate her for 15 hours and then make me play this character did not help. Maybe they should have made her playable earlier into the story so I can understand everything BEFORE things happen. Playing her that late into the game didn't make me care about her. I hated this character and after finishing the game I still do. Furthermore, this does not change the fact that Abby is a straight up psychopath! Torturing a guy to death that just saved your life, sleeping with your friends boyfriend, wanting to kill a pregnant woman (knowingly) and giving a **** about all her friends. But hey, she pets some dogs... Joel: We don't trust strangers.... Elie: She knew Joel lied to her at the end of the first game, didn't she? Now she's mad? Oh and remember the lighthearted, optimistic and caring girl? She's gone! Still better than Abby as she shows immediate reactions to killing innocent people AFTER beging attacked. Jesse: Only likeable character gets shot for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. Tommy: Survives a headshot. And what's wrong with pregnant women in this world? And so on... TLOU2 is a technical masterpiece and a fun game to play. But to experience the "story" is frustrating and angering. What were they thinking?
So many critics are just unconstructiv and unfair. They put so much effort in tlou2 and who are you to rate this game with zeros, ones, twos, and threes?! Sure some parts of the game dont have the quality of the first one but that doesnt mean the game is bad. You are disappointed? Guess what: you can keep your respectless opinion for yourself! Metacritics already rated this game fair enough with almost a 100 :)
I am sorry, but this game is not a "part 2" from the previous masterpiece. The story is bad, and it doesnt fits with the first game. Also they remove the main character after promoting them on all trailers.. Like how ?? Sorry naughty dog but this is your biggest fail. I'll always remmeber the first one and i will miss the existence of this second game.
It's not that I don't like this game. Graphics are gorgeous and gameplay is quite fine but story, pacing and character development is simply horrendus. It would be just another below average game for me but this is The Last of Us! I was so exited for this game for years and now? Now I wish it didn't exist. I've spend over 30 hours with this game and it was a totally waste of time. I do not acknowledge existence of this pathethic exuse of a game that has writing on a level below that of most fanfics.
This game just isn't fun. Yes it visually amazing and pushes a different narrative. But games are supposed to be fun. Once this game changes the character perspective it just became a drag. Everything from killing the dogs to the character upgrades just wasn't fun. I didn't want to write a bad review because of the hate for this game by some people who haven't played the game. But I beat this game in less than a week of it's release with my wife and neither of us enjoyed the game.
A truly groundbreaking experience, the first AAA game that i've played that isn't intended to be 'fun' its meant to test your humanity, If you just let the story take you for the ride and don't resist you will have a great time.
Last of Us 1, was a fantastic game! Why go down the road you did? Why push an agenda? Here is a thought, just focus on making a great game and not panda to a select few. Sad this game could of been game of the year, instead you will be right there with Blizzard and the Warcraft 3 remake. 1. Story line 2 2. Graphics 8 3. Acting 4 4. SJW 0 5. Pushing Agenda 0
The original the last of us is one of my favourite games ever made. I am not one of those people who felt it did not need a sequel as the story of the first game had such a perfect ending. I have every faith in Naughty Dog that whatever game they make will be of the utmost quality as they have such an incredible track record. I was right not to be concerned, this game is incredible. I will not spoil anything here as the less you know the more you will enjoy it. What I will say is that the story is not afraid to take risks and is far better off for it. But of course this isn't just about the story, it is about the gameplay and everything else in between, it is all top notch. It runs very smoothly, combat encounters are tense and memorable. The kills are brutal and you will often hear screams of agony and enemies calling out names, which adds to the realism and immersion. It is also very violent, you can almost feel Ellies hatred when she kills people involved in a horrific incident early in the game, I love panning the camera around to Ellie when she is taking down an enemy from behind, you can clearly see the hatred etched on her face. Some people may disagree with the direction the story takes and some of the actions taken by the lead characters, but I personally feel very pleased with how the story panned out. Every single environment feels incredibly detailed, I was desperate to explore everything I possibly could, there are plenty of secrets to be found as well as quite a few Easter eggs. This game demands exploration and I genuinely felt saddened when I realise there was something that I missed. I cannot recommend this game enough, you may have heard people complaining a lot about the story and yes it is divisive, but I think it is much better because of it. I finished it 2 weeks ago and have not been able to stop thinking about it since. A must buy!!
Terrible revenge story that is in no way fulfilling in the end. Abby is a terrible character despite the game constantly trying to force players to empathize with her situation and actions.
First things first this is the best looking console game that I have ever played. The level design is at its best. The score is just as good as the first game. The combat is about the same as the first one and so is the scavenging. But what gives it such a low rating for me is that the story is just sloppy. Within the first hour of the game, Joel the character that you played in the first one and played countless hours of dies in such a cheap way to just give the game it’s existence. Revenge, that is the story, not saying that’s bad but revenge is literally the most original story you can do. Half of this game is played by Ellie whom who grow to dislike as the game progresses because of just how poorly she is written. She isn’t that jolly funny girl in the first game anymore she is just a boring non-charismatic person. Now I know that a lot can happen in the four years that have passed and they do show flashbacks as to why she is boring and etc. But they do it in a way that just doesn’t seem believable. The other half of the game is played by Joel’s killer Abby who honestly had better missions and character development than Ellie. The game just randomly switches to Abby and I thought that oh I wouldn’t be playing her long so for two hours I just was trying to get her done as fast as possible but it turns out that wasn’t the case. I didn’t like playing Abby at all. It was just such a drag that I just wanted to get it over with. At the end of Abby’s chapter three you have to fight Ellie who is the main protagonist of the game and who you loved and cared so much about in the first game. That to me was just so upsetting to people who loved the first game and grew to love Ellie. The end of the game is also just so unfulfilling I’m so many ways. Ellie goes all this way through all this trouble loses some friends and a father figure to only not kill Abby and just let her live. Now I now what they were going for revenge gets you nowhere, it’s not good for anybody but if you went through all the trouble and had so many of your close ones die you’d best be getting your revenge. The game kills off people in the game who you generally know and they do it so much and often that when someone dies it’s like (oh ok hm what else is new). The shock wasn’t there anymore it’s was just not surprising. This is the first game that I switched the difficulty to the easiest difficulty just to get it done and over with. It was just so frustrating playing this game waiting seven years from playing one of the greatest video games of all time to just being an utter disappointment. I enjoyed playing the game because I like the world of the last of us I like the different factions and the whole zombie apocalypse. I just would not buy this game at full price. If anything I’d say watch someone play it so you don’t have to waste any money. If I had to choose one word for this game it would disappointing.
Absolutely dreadful! Nothing in part 2 makes sense almost as if to suggest Naughty Dog only cares about SJW pandering and absolutely nothing else. How stupid can you be!? Further more (No spoilers for anyone who's stupid enough to care) the original characters don't even act like the same characters they were in the first game; they do a complete 180! A zombie game turned into woke garbage about cliche human drama done so poorly you'll want to kill yourself before you even buy the game.
Esse jogo é simplesmente fenomenal. Não há outro game em 2020 que possa superar essa obra prima, que certamente será o GOTY. Qua to ao userscore baixo, é coisa de caixista frustrado, jogador de grounded. Chorem mais!
Huge fan of the first game. Extremely disappointed with this sequel mainly because of the terrible story. The writing is a complete insult to its fans from the original game. Returned my copy of The Last of Us 2 to Gamestop and was fortunate to get my money back.
Meh story. The seven is for all the hard work put in by everyone thank you. Glad I got to experience this game. Shame it felt like it was trying to meet an agenda instead of tell a story for me.
Bons gráficos,excelente gameplay e uma história que me decepcionou. Mesmo preferindo o primeiro jogo e não ter gostado,de fato, é um jogo bom e divertido. Pelo preço eu recomendo esperar um desconto,afinal,mesmo a gameplay sendo muito bom não é algo que me sustentou.
Игра явно недооценена, очень жаль наблюдать за тем, как люди не игравшие в нее оставляют отрицательные отзывы. Все хейтят её за феменизм и я их понимаю, сам считаю, что он в этой игре ни к чему, насчет ЛГБТ никаких притнзий не имею, ведь ещё с дополнения к первой части игры было понятно, что Элли лесбиянка. Было неприятно, что в игре фигурируют по большей части только женские персонажи, а мужские отходят на второй план. Насчет Эбби все довольно очевидно, многие хейтят её за внешний вид, но этому есть объяснение, так как на протяжении нескольких лет она усердно тренировалась, как она ещё должна выглядеть? Отдельно хочу выделить, что в игре очень хорошее звуковое сопровождение, оружие ощущается реалистично, единственная проблема со звуком и музыкой, так как от них вся комната ходила ходуном, играл у друга и у себя на телевизоре и я не представляю, какие мощные нужны динамики, что бы вытянуть нормально звук и музыку. Не смотря на то, что в геймплей не было добавлено практически ничего нового, играть в игру приятно и интересно. Сюжет довольно трогательный, есть пища для размышлений, но концовка меня не устроило. В целом, игра мне понравилась, моя оценка 8, но я поставлю 10, в качестве компенсации за хейтеров, которые смотрели на игру только со стороны пропаганды феменизма и лгбт.

"I wish things were different, but they ain't." 6/10 ★★★★★★☆☆☆☆ Swear to me there are no spoilers... I swear. Following up to one of the most acclaimed PlayStation games was never going to be an easy feat. Many of us agreed that the first game did not warrant a sequel and Naughty Dog told us that there would only be a sequel if there was a story to be told. With a reputation such as theirs, I trusted they would do the right thing. 7 years later, the story is here and it has been one of the most divisive and polarizing games released this generation. The first Last of us was my favorite narrative based game largely because of the well crafted characters and interactions between them juxtaposed against the backdrop of a dismal world. However, if you go into the second installment with the same expectations or use it as any form of guideline, you are in for one hell of a shock! Part II was made to differentiate itself from its predecessor and subvert your expectations. It takes the franchise into a very different direction to what you may have anticipated... and would have wanted. So... what's GOOD? This game is not a masterpiece, but it isn't terrible. Unfortunately, this games strengths lie in the technical department rather than the story itself. The gameplay, animations, systems , AI and attention to detail is hardly rivalled by other games and adds character and previously unexplored tones to each location. The dev's who worked their asses off deserve a lot of credit for what they managed to pull off here. The improved combat system is extremely satisfying, especially when you land heavy blows or feel the impact of enemy strikes that knock you to the ground. The ability to craft a range of useful and well balanced weapons gives you options on how to best take on enemies. The new groups you encounter are unnerving but also not surprising in a crazy apocalyptic world such as this one. The new ability to go prone saved my ass too many times and now you're able to disappear in the overgrown environment like Rambo. The sound design is also fantastic and Gustavo Santaolalla's soundtrack fits very well with the themes in the game with "Unbroken" being my personal favorite track. Apart from the technical side, there are some good story moments too where I actually found myself feel something or actually take a liking to a new character. However, these moments are brief and occur very early into the game or during flashbacks. THE BAD The game is overwhelmingly but understandingly bleak and rarely mimics the charm of the first game, apart from one or two missions (you'll know if you've played it!). Although this game is twice as long as the first game, I felt little connection with the new characters and every single one of them felt underdeveloped. Not only do you not care about these characters, but you are also forced to spend a lot of time with the people you do not like, resulting in a lack of investment. The jumbled storytelling, character design, character decisions and sometimes dialogue throughout the game seems awkward and will often make you lose your s**t... which is a massive problem for a narrative based game. This inconsistency and lack of investment has a destructive effect on your ability to enjoy large gameplay sections and will undoubtedly become tedious, disjointed and grueling. On many occasions I laughed or rolled my eyes at the events that were unfolding on the screen because they were so unbelievable, flawed, tropey, convenient or simply just pointless. THE UGLY The game does not hold back on its violence and actually gives you little option to avoid it. If you don't like to see people dismembered into red mist using crudely crafted weapons or you are a massive dog lover this game might not be for you. The game will also plunge you into dark and spooky areas with your flashlight as the only source. There is one hair raising mission that would not feel misplaced in a resident evil game (if you know, you know). THE VERDICT When all is considered, this game is undoubtedly a technical marvel but falls flat in large segments of the story due to its fixation on teaching you basic morals. In turn, the game sacrifices character development, pacing and everything you enjoyed about the first game. If the focus switched to what this franchise means to the majority of us, then it would have been better received by its audience.
I'm trying to understand why people hate The Last of Us 2. This is one of the best sequels I've played in my entire life. Last time I got sucked into a story like this was with Red Dead Redemption 2 and LOU2 stands toe to toe with it. I loved the first game and I really thought that a second part was unnecessary. ND's biggest challenge was to justify the sequel's existence and GODDAMN they did it! I love it even more. It's hard to find anything negative about it. Even the soundtrack is fantastic and I really thought they wouldn' top that. Well, they did that too. For starters, this is the most beautiful game of this generation. The level of detail and animation technology here is stunning. Part of the reason why you get so convinced in getting involved with the characters is because of how they talk, move, laugh, cry, talk and just react to things. What the devs pulled here was a work of art. A phenomenal graphical powerhouse that paves the way for an incredibly elaborate story. The gameplay's still very reminiscent of the first entry, but much more improved. Combat and stealth are gruesome, intelligent, challenging, intense and breathtaking. You may not have the level of flexibility of MGSV or the improvisation possibilities of Uncharted 4, but you can ACTUALLY plan how you're going to face encounters and recover from bad decisions, turning the tide to your favor. It's almost flawless. Upgrading your character also feels a lot more rewarding now. Looking for supplies and saving bullets and items matters a lot more, this time. Oh and the environments are GORGEOUS! Not only to look at, but to explore. They felt scary AND charming at the same time. But the true driving force of TLOU2 is the story. The acting and writing is at its best. I've seen few things like it in a video game. Without getting into the infamous heavy controversial spoilers, I felt like EVERY decision made in its plot was masterfully done and well justified. It's weird when they break the tale's climax to change the perspective, but when you get further into the script, you just get it. You root for both characters. You may even hate them both. It makes you question MANY things about society, revenge, choice, family, humanity and love. All of these things backed by the strong portrayal of amazing actors, great writing, precise details and impressive animations. Can't remember the last time I cried and laughed this much as I did here. I guess the bad parts of TLOU2 are in its structure. Like I said, it is extremely justifiable, but it takes a while to justify it. The story is massive and beautiful, but they break it with many flashbacks and perspective moves. Pacing kinda drags, especially with the "Can't Go This Way, Let's Find Another One" moments. It definitely did not trouble my experience, but I get that it can be bothersome. The third act, albeit VERY impactful, can kinda feels rushed. Specially since they just throw a new group of enemies at you without any background. The stealth, when facing the infected, doesn't always work. Maybe it's on purpose, but I went through some frustrating moments when dealing with them. Also, your companion's AI sort of... Sucks. It's really hard to give this game anything different than a 10. It might not feel like it in the future, but I really see almost no flaw in it. I had fun, I got sad, angry, happy, frustrated and felt challenged by TLOU2. Challenged not only by the gameplay, but also by the story. The game's biggest challenge is to see both sides and to deal and accept that, well... Tomorrow begats tomorrow. Wether it's a good or a bad one. A brutal or a beautiful one. A bloody or a peaceful tomorrow. Your decisions will make or break you. And it might just make or break others too. If you love video games, play this one.
Story is trash... Gameplay is good and everything is fine without good story no mood to play game
Once you know the story and do a replay, you'll get bored really quickly. There are so many QTEs and given directions, you don't feel like playing the game at all. It's like watching a movie with some minigames in the pauses between the cutscenes. Graphics are pretty, but nothing we haven't seen before, for example in Uncharted 4, gameplay is ok-ish, but with a heavy focus on grinding. I'm more disappointed than anything, and that's not even touching the story.
One of the best games i ever played. The graphics are incredible, with lots of details, it’s really impressive! Besides, the game has a great story, and give us a great lesson that in life there’s no good or evil, and everyone has the good and the bad side, depending of how you look it.
The last of us sold because story was excellent. This game was the reverse . I don't want to hear " but the gameplay" or graphics are good. Forcing you to make decisions and then belittling you for them sucks. Hated new characters and ending sucks.
Gameplay is solid and the graphics are beyond gorgeous, however it's the story that kills it for me as it seems the creatives and director behind this game hoped you would immediately love Abbie like they were hoping to pull the same thing Walking Dead did with Negan, except it didn't hit the landing..... at all. The ending left me feeling a bit hollow and I just wanted to move onto a new game. That being said, it's not THE WORST game like many claim it is. Played it once then sold my copy to a friend.
Gostei muito do game. Acredito que nunca antes eu havia visto tanta qualidade técnica em um game. A jogabilidade é perfeita. Os gráficos são fenomenais. As expressões faciais dos personagens são um show à parte. Para mim, o que decepcionou um pouco, foi a questão do enredo um tanto quanto "apelativo". No geral, esse game é uma obra de arte.
Needless to say this is a Day and Night difference of opinion between critics and the general gaming public. Naughty Dog’s formula with games since the original Uncharted has been: Mediocre game mechanics. But amazing animation, set pieces, character development, and story telling. Unfortunately with this particular title significant character development and storytelling has disappeared. On top of this, it’s no secret at this point that the game is significantly longer then it actually needs to be. Inhabiting an additional character, who a majority of players can’t connect with or care about for obvious reasons. The final confrontation in the game easily being one of the most satisfying, then most dissatisfying moments in the story, not to mention video game history. Not to mention nonsensical.
Audio 10 Graphics 10 gameplay 6 story 1 A shell of a game. A beautiful, atmospheric world gone to waste by some of the worst storytelling in video game history. This is beyond bad writing, it is propaganda.

Pegue os melhores gráficos somados a uma jogabilidade muito boa, somados as melhores expressões faciais já vistas em um jogo, somados ao melhor áudio design e melhor ambientação... Pegue tudo isso e queime. Foi isso o que a Naughty Dog fez. Seu predecessor foi algo tão grande... a ultima cena onde o Joel conta a mentira pra Ellie, tudo fica em segundo plano, inclusive a própria Ellie pois a menina dos olhos agora é a Abby, uma personagem que eles te forçam a jogar e meio que forçam a gostar dela, querendo te colocar no ponto de vista oposto, na minha opinião, a maior cagada. No primeiro jogo temos uma jornada de 2 personagens até o final, no segundo são inúmeros personagens entrando e saindo de cena, uma bagunça. Mataram o protagonista hétero branco malvado pra substituir pela mulher ultra empoderada bad ass tipo Thor e seu fiel escudeiro Atreus trans. E no final num tem vingança nenhuma, pois eles precisavam manter a dupla do próximo jogo. Pré-venda da Naughty Dog nunca mais.

No words can describe how bad it was. Just why!! The first 27 minutes of the game they are acting as the world is normal playing in the snow playing guitar and of course a party and a kiss!!! As the first one in the first 27 minutes I couldn’t blink I was so afraid I will miss something if I blinked. Thanks for ruining a good memory and a good game konami did it before you and now you are following the same steps.
Ignore the review bombs from the neck beard crowd. The game is every bit as human, sad, and cautiously hopeful as the first. It tugs at your heart strings with a beautiful story, and it's worth every penny and more. Bonus? The guitar mini game is dope
This game has and forever will divide players. Personally, this game is a masterpiece that has elicited certain emotions that no other form of media has before. Whether you are talking about its violent yet beautifully animated gameplay to its stunning graphical fidelity and impeccable audio design, there is no argument that Naughty Dog is on another level in terms of technical artistry.
This is my first ever game review. I had read a lot about the game before hand and still reading things about it, after re-selling the game upon finishing it. The game is not as bad as some are same, but it is also not as good as some are also saying. Aside from the storyline which I had little problem with ( although not the best by any means ), there are 3 major flaws. 1- not how Joel dies, in fact I liked the d the fact that I was quite brutal. I was already expecting him to die. It is NOT how he dies, it is the fact that he dies within 2 hours of the game. The main character of the last of us dies within the first 2 hours of the game Let that sink in. Its like Harry Potter dying in the first 20 minutes of the film. That he died? Fine. But could they not have come up with something later down the line?. 2- I've thought this long and hard. Could they not have come up with the option to play abby? Because honest to god, it is not the fact that I genuinely did not for one second feel like playing baby. Her story line is indeed fun. You get to explore the world a bit more. And yet, I still had no emotional connection to her. At all. Being forced to play a character I do NOT want to play is not fun. 3- I heard Neil Druckman does not use fun to describe this game. Whatever happened to video games? To the enjoyment of playing game and forgetting the real world. I want everybody to finish reading this review and if you have not yet played the game, play it and ask yourself., did you, at any point had any fun playing it? Because I speak for myself when I say. Not at all did I have any fun. I was always on edge. Always waiting for something. I literally did not smile at all, unless it was a ellie/joel flashback. It was a horrible feeling. And it is a game I could never play twice. Again, not because of the storyline. But the fun was literally vacuumed out of that game.
The story of this game was epic. I found myself enjoying playing as Abby as I wasn't so restricted on combat as I'm with Eille. People who are destroying this game cause of Joel death need a life. Why do you think Ellie gets revenge? Cause they killed her dog? Lol!! It's pretty obvious why she was going to make everyone pay. Not my Game of the Year but Game is on Point.
Não adianta chorar cryxistas mil grauzêiros, o jogo é incrivelmente maravilhoso! Tem suas falhas, mas com certeza será o GOTY, parabéns aos desenvolvedores pela obra prima. E chola mais!
Ellie not killing Abbey is a bad joke. Ruins the game. Neil Druckman can GFH. No more games from him.
Проблема игры в том что когда убивают твоего любимого героя ,тебя потом заставляют играть за это существо перекаченое

Also das spiel Selbs nich drauf achtern auf teil 1 gar nicht übel und denn noch 2 teil von der story hätte nicht sein müssen ja gefühlt sehr gut man merkt auch unterschied doch 2 abschnitt killt einfach von last of us 1 komplett
The best game of this generation. The gameplay is amazing, the details are unbelievable. The story is great, it has a few flaws but nothing major. A must buy game.
It’s nothing like the first one. That’s fine but didn’t do better. First one is a masterpiece. This one is just mehhh.
This game is a trainwreck. A grimdark story can be excused in certain cases when the gameplay itself is fun but with TLOU2 the creators try to make you regret playing it. Never before have I seen a game trying so hard to make you regret spending your money on it and with the current global situation that is an idiotic philosophy for a video game. I honestly question the sanity of the execs who signed off for this game to be released. It is such a directorial self insert that it may as well be Druckmanns facebook page. From inserting a character almost certainly based on himself who spits on the corpse of the first game to adding parts with his religion and personal politics there can be no doubt that this game is Neil's fantasy or else a physical embodiment of his own arrogance. Who signed off to release this? From the original games heartwarming and brutal paean to the relationship between Fathers and their Daughters to a confused mishmash of hysterical modern political preaching and violence to the point of parody this game wants to be hated to make a point that even it isn't sure about. In places visually stunning but the animations at times leave a lot to be desired. The jump button is useless and the box declaring it as a feature in 2020 is ridiculous. To best sum up TLou2 we must compare it to the first game because it is an unashamed vendetta against everything that made the first game special. It is akin to tearing down a classic painting, burning it and then proclaiming yourself the true artist. I understand certain zeitgeists put deconstruction of a classic on a pedestal but this is just crude and bitter. Even the pseudo Kojima trickery attempted by the trailers was bought by nobody. The fans knew what was coming. The main point of my review is that hardly any of what is in Tlou2 needs to be in a video game. A good video game with a bad story is playable. A bad video game with a good story is acceptable. Tlou2 may have familiar controls to the first game but the game tries to guilt trip you for using them. A survival horror game that tries to guilt trip you for surviving is not worth the plastic its printed on. Do sports games penalise you for scoring? All in all the game sought to elicit a negative response and I hope it gets it because contempt for the fanbase should never be rewarded. The minute you veer towards that you fail as an industry.
This game is a slap in the face to the gamers who made this company rich off their first, rightfully celebrated title (the first game in this series). They gathered a huge fan base off one of the best games of all time, and crafted the second to try and push a political agenda on that same audience using the TLoU franchise as the vehicle.. this game wasn't made to be fun. It was made to be a vehicle for their message and it served only to disgust people.
The game mechanics are essentially the same as the first game, with slight improvements. The story isn't necessarily bad, just very poorly executed. Huge disappointment for a game that so many were looking forward to. I was going to rate the game much lower because of this, but the developers did a great job finishing this game under enormous pressure and despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Many titles released under difficult circumstances are buggy to the point of appearing unfinished. This is a polished AAA title, so that kept it from being rated even lower.
The graphics does not save this game at all. The story is messed up, to an unrecognizable level. If you loved the first game, save yourself the money the time and the nerves. Ignore this abomination. We do not need your politics and bad mindless subversions in our games!
Ruined possibly the greatest game of all time. When I heard Ellie was to be the main character I was pretty bummed out already, as I didn’t enjoy the dlc to the original game. This game completely changes Ellie’s character from everything she stood for in the first. Terrible way to tie up Joel’s story and maybe Ellie’s to. Play the first one multiple times but don’t play this it’ll ruin the whole experience of the first!!
I don't have words to describe how this game affected my feelings. This game have the power to make you fell exactly how Ellie is feeling. The way the storie conects is simply genial. Besides, gameplay is as good as the one we see in the first game with somo improvements. This game is a masterpeace in all aspects.
It’s very atmospheric game with super graphics and characters. Don’t take into consideration 0 rankings, it’s worth to play and spend your time Perfect Face animation, movement animation, Graf is is one of the best
I loved this game, very brutal, gory, horrific, powerful. It really plays on your heart strings. If you have strong emotions with good empathy you'll have a good time with it. Sadly many people don't. On
After a certain way a beloved character of mine died and after a stupid choice another beloved character took at the end I just threw this game in the nearest trashcan.
game mechanics is the same of the last one and there are few new zombie. the frustration came on not having an option to an important event. i dont mind the Abby ithink that it fits the character it shows but at least give me an option to the events.
The Last or us part 2 is an amazing game with great story telling, graphics, gameplay, soundtrack. Not everyone will like this game and I can see and understand why, it’s way different from the first one but I also feel like people don’t give it a chance and they don’t even play it, they just hear the leaks. There is so much more to this game and the reason people hate on it is because of Joel’s death which yes was extremely sad but it doesn’t make the game bad. The game isn’t supposed to be a happy game it’s supposed to be a sad and unsettling game and it’s really good at making you feel that. You can feel and see the pain in Ellie as you go through Seattle looking for Abby and the rest of the WLF. Yes Abby is a **** but besides that I have no complaints about this game, and even though it was wrong you can’t blame Abby to much because as much as I love Joel and was sad to see him go the way he did he did kill her father and hurt the rest of the world to save Ellie so Abby feels that pain too. Anyways the improvement on everything in this game from the first one is amazing. Just because Joel died the way he died doesn’t mean the game is bad! 10/10! An emotional Masterpiece!
Graphics 8 Gameplay 5 Story 2 Bugs -3 4.0 The story is disconnected and forced. For me it was a bad experience. being forced to play with a character you have no empathy for, makes it very difficult to enjoy the game. Has a few bugs like Days Gone. It's playable at all!
The visuals are stellar. The gameplay is improved from the first game. The story, however, is not. I loved the first game because of the relationship that developed between Ellie and Joel. That is completely wrecked in this game. By the end, Ellie is all alone, physically destroyed, and mentally destroyed.
Good peoisjsjsjdjdjsjajshhshdjdjdjdjshshhfjfjdjfjfjdjsjsjfjfjfjfjfjfjfjjddjfjfj

Brutal , visceral combat, realistic graphics. As much as I love Joel, his death was justified. he selfishly ended any hope of saving humanity and killed countless people’s family to do it. The stuff about Abby being trans wasn’t true. And by the end I got it. Everyone knows the game isn’t trash if they Really, actually played it. But I get the bombing, and I hope ND gets the message. I don’t hate anyone, but the majority of your audience are males. And you are losing your straight male audience. Please keep your political views out your next game

The game is not bad, the problem is how they handled the story. Everyone keeps saying that we’re mad because Joel is dead but it’s actually the WAY he died that’s annoying. The gameplay is good but some parts are really boring and the only new characters i liked were Yara and Lev (Dina and Jesse were okay but Yara and Lev were more interesting). I don’t hate the game but i don’t love it either. The ending was just kinda meh. Why did Ellie have to kill all those people to just forgive Abby? It was very unsatisfying to see Ellie all alone without Dina, JJ and two of her fingers.

The Last of Us Part II I've spent a lot of time contemplating a review of this particular game. I don't usually review games in general on any forum - thus this being my first Metacritic review - some will claim "review bomb" but this is not the case, please hear me out. The first installment of this game was a masterpiece, it featured lovable characters that many people (including myself) became attached to, just as in other games like Tomb Raider, but with the added emotional character attachment that oft doesn't develop, or at least not on such a deep level in video games. Along with the great narrative and exciting adventure that made TLoU so great. When I heard ND was making a TLoU2 I was excited to continue this adventure with the beloved characters I had become emotionally attached to, however this game took a turn for the worse early in my playthrough as the series' main protagonist fate was revealed. I wasn't a fan of the new characters, and it certainly wasn't what I thought I would be playing when I pre-ordered The Last of Us 2. As I was playing through I often thought to myself that this should have been a new IP, maybe named "Vengeance" or something rather than marketing it as TLoU2, it seems kind of like a bait and switch to me. In addition the gratuitous violence was on a new level, I'm sure this was what ND was going for but I wasn't a fan of it. The game play was somewhat improved over the original while not being top notch, I was not unhappy with that aspect nor was I unhappy with the visuals or the environments as I prefer more linear games. The animations were top notch, however I did feel the game was too long, it could have been half the play-time and achieved the same end result. About half way through I was ready for the credits to roll. I can't help but feel as I stated before that this should have been a new IP, which I think would have had more positive reviews, but a TLoU game this is not thus the low review score. Here's my take: Graphics: 9/10 - very good Environment: 7/10 - very good Animations: 9/10 - top notch Mechanics: 5/10 - good enough for the type of game it is Narrative: 0/10 - not good, not TLoU Characters: 1/10 - I barely remember their names let alone like them, other than Ellie Play-time: 3/10 - too long Gore: 0/10 - excessive and unnecessary Marketing: 0/10 - misleading In conclusion I will just say this, I'm disappointed with the game and ND, you're better than this! And I look forward to more masterpieces like Uncharted, but I'll probably not be buying any more TLoU games in the future.

Poorly written. The dialogue is bad, Joel and Tommy are not credible in their roles (not that Joel sticks around much) and Abby's whole gang of rag-tags are insufferable. The humiliating way Joel dies is an insult to his character, the first game, and the fan base's intellect. I just won't fall for such cheap attempts at emotional manipulation. Joel is reduced to a mere instrument for justifying this badly designed revenge plot. And in the end, they still try to make him the bad guy. The game wants you to think there are more deep themes at play but there aren't. They did it for shock value. The characters are just puppets, servient to the plot and scarcely have any motivations of their own. At least it's fun, right? Not unless you enjoy dragging yourself through 25 hours of bleak slow-paced cut-scenes, with unlikable characters you can't even relate to. It's gonna pay off in the end when the story is supposed to go somewhere and make some sort of point, except it doesn't, and you forgot about it anyway because you got tired of stabbing people's throats over and over and over again. It's a social commentary about violence or something like that, you know? I think? Murder is bad, okay?
Well, i completed this game in a 2 days. Good parts: - graphics - technologys - game can play on your emotions Bad parts: - I see sjw **** that kill a part of story - Dont like gameplay, its boring and came from 90s - game has fillers
literally They killed joel without reason and after killing joel nothing is interesting the game based on story and the story in part 2 is nothing
Really fun game all i can say is play the game for yourself don't listen to the bad reviews from posting this the game has been released for 8 hours and 21 minutes yet people are saying they've completed a game that takes 25/30 hours to complete so don't listen to the bad reviews they are just people trying to vring down the game

everything its ok in this game except the story its sucks!! if the last of us was a movie i still ok with it, but the last us is a game, player have put effort for it, what's the point of playing this game, if the game it self doesn't have it?
This story is **** **** .Joel is the reason people play this game and you kill him in the first hour of the **** game!?Worst of all you get to play Abby the one who killed him for more than half the **** you Naughty dog 7 years just for this **** this biased reviewers too with their fake 10/10
Game looks gorgeous , some physics need improvements. At the first beginning it gives you a nice feeling about the game , until everything goes down ... and it begins with Joel's death.. the reason of this review is that , i bought and played the game due to its amazing story in the first part , i did not expect such a story ... played a lot to get nothing...the story is rubbish
Story sucked, characters sucked. I actually spent more time finding different ways to kill Abby than actually playing it. I can not give it an extermely low review like a 1-2 since it does get somethings right and it was a bit of fun. But comparing it to the first game it is like Heaven and Earth. Because I loved the story of the first so much I could not bring myself to find too many good things about the 2nd part. It is just mediocre. We know the "proffessional" critics are payed to give it high scores so just disregard them, truthfully the current user score is the correct one for this game - 4 or 5/10. Mediocre.
This game ruins everything the first built up to. Like everyone else has said, the graphics are amazing and the story sucks. The dialogue is ok, but this game suffers from terrible writing.




The ending was so lame, there's no point in playing the game. And why does abby have to be like that? There's fan versions and YouTubers who are making better endings to the game
Naughty Dog dropped the ball on this one. Last of Us Part ll was the most anticipated PS4 exclusive I think there has ever been, and possibly the most anticipated game of all time. With a petty revenge story that drives the plot, which doesn't even conclude with a satisfying ending, the characters all seem to feel meaningless and misguided. The story was pointless. Visuals and gameplay does hold the game up on it's legs, however, that just is not enough to make this nearly as wonderful as the original installment. Such a shame.

First off this game is absolutely gorgeous and the gameplay is awesome but when it comes down to what the human spirit longs for that this game painfully lacks, is HOPE. I don’t recognize the characters I once loved from the original masterpiece. Being forced to try and kill one of the main characters that I dearly loved after seeing the other one murdered left me feeling depressed. At the end of this game you are left feeling dark and hopeless, stripped of any joy and love left. The human spirit needs hope especially in a time where the world feels dark and uncertain. I say this with respect to the naughty dog team and appreciate my opinion being heard. I hope we get a better game from this amazing team next time around!
Es que es increíble el cabreo que me he llevado luego de jugarlo. Esperaba que toda la crítica fuera falsa pero para mí decepción no fue así. Comprendí lo que querían hacer pero muy mal ejecutado. Me he dado cuenta que lo más importante de un juego no es su parte técnica si no que la historia y como se cuenta y como te sumergen en ella es lo más.imporsnte
I can only comment on the story rather than my experience with the game-play at this stage because I watched a nearly 9 hour play-through from Gamer's Little Playground. Upon reflection I do not think I could have played this game and enjoyed it, as a passive experience it worked and there were some amazing moments, the emotional roller coaster of a Revenge Plot at it's best. However if I was an active player controlling Abby after witnessing what she did to one of the best characters in all gaming, I would not have been able to play further. I want to give a negative score because of the wasted opportunity to see Joel & Ellie triumph over all obstacles. However as I continued to watch and see the flashbacks of Ellie's and Joel's relationship it was amazing. I enjoyed witnessing Ellie's quest for revenge but was left feeling empty by the ending (I assume this is what was intended) but to spend the entire game seeking for revenge but to let Abby go was a poor decision on the part of the writers, one of many in my opinion. So in short I understand why Game Journalist gave this such high reviews, but I absolutely understand why it is getting review bombed now.
The game has really good graphics but the story is borring characters have no chemistry like in the first one the AI is retarded. And it just feels like there trying to push a political agenda down our throats instead of focusing on making a great game.
Definitely a must play, nearly top tier but took me a bit emotionally getting used to playing Abby just felt it was bit awkward at the start of playing her


I can't belive this is what naughty dog has become. Gameplay is so damm boring and plays Exactly the same as it did in the first game. The story and characters are just so disappointing, im not going to lose my time to explain the reasons for why since there are dozens of 30 minute videos out there that just do it better than I ever could. Graphics and facial expressions look absolutely amazing and that is why it doesn't get a 0.
Достойное продолжение оригинала. Возможно история в the last of us part 2 не всем придется по душе. Чувствуется в сюжете некая затянутость, как и в геймплейных моментах кстати. Но как бы то ни было, итоговые впечатления от игры сугубо положительные. Это настоящий ААА блокбастер.

It’s a big shame what happened to this franchise from the masterpiece it was in the first game to this trash ,simply one of the worst sequels in gaming history , the story is poorly written and pointless with no progression ,the characters are unlikable and making stupid Decisions ,the gameplay with good at first hours but it gets tedious with time considering its a30 hours game the only good thing about this game is the graphics and animations but overall it’s a **** game and a waste of time
Este juego logro lo imposible. Logro que toda la comunidad tóxica xboxer, nintendera, pcera y homofóbica se haya ardido y traten en vano de tumbar el éxito de otro juego exclusivo de Playstation. Están tan ardidos que se les expuso que son y serán la comunidad más envidiosa de la comunidad gaming
TLOU II have a great gameplay and graphics, however, TLOU used to be about the story and this one lack every basic point... Its forced, its badly written and it disrespects its own characters and for what i wonder... It was a huge let down...





i liked the first half even though they killed my fave protagonist! but then **** goes downhill even more i didn,t like abby and they tryed to humanize her like oh wait she helps these kids and **** i want to like this game and somewhere i still do but neil you **** up! i liked the gameplay and the atpmosfeer it looks so real but the story is not good!!! and this is coming from a huge the last of us fan and that ending didn´t make sense like really bruh.
The graphics are nice and do not betray the expectations set by the original game. It could have been better and the potential of the PS4 Pro was not properly utilised. The gameplay is repetative and the mechanics are lacking. The story is the worst in the history of gaming: you kill the protagonist and play the murderer with no explanation and you also play the daughter-figure of the victim, whose primary purpose is revenge. In the end you don't get revenge though, and the storytortures you with unskippable filler just like a low budget anime. It is almost like the story was made bad on purpose... Graphics: 7
The best storytelling game ever! Many games caused my tears with their narration, but TLOU2 .... After passing it, my soul ached to me (in a good way), I sobbed bitterly! I am grateful to the development team for this masterpiece!

I'm honest this game isn't that good. Story is not great and it has forgettable side characters. Graphics are great, gameplay is almost same as the first one.



Graphics - 8/10 Gameplay - 6/10 Story - 2/10 The constant violence within the gameplay was boring and feels really outdated. The storytelling drops to a new low. The game feels like a collection of inconsistencies and bad ideas. Additionally, the original story was never about Elie. it was about Joel, the loss of his daughter and the connection he makes with Elie as he tries to be a father figure to her. This game forgets all that and goes off in a very strange direction about revenge... it really wasn't the enjoyable experience it should have been. I wish I had waited for this to come on sale in 6-12 months.
Fantastic graphics and decent gameplay are completely over shadowed by the garbage story. What Naughty Dog decided to not only do to the characters but what they did with the heart of the game is pure stupidity. The first game was a bleak, dark world with a light of humanity at its heart. This game just uses beloved characters to ram a cult ideology down your throat with zero humanity or heart aside from one flashback. It’s done with malice and hate, ending with hopelessness. All this game served to do for me is to insure I’ll never buy another Naughty Dog game again. These aren’t bots leaving bad scores, they’re actual people that buy games. I’d also bet a good portion didn’t buy the game but you know what? I bet they wanted to. That’s why they’re angry.
politics in games is never a good thing the last of us was excellent this here is a sequel in name only keep your opinions to your self and just make a sequel to what was a really well written first entry joel was a fantastic character elle was ok i actually thought joels daughter was a much better character at the start of the game and answer this for me how can critics review a game and only be allowed to talk about the first half of it ??? this game is sjw politically correct rubbish that might sound petty but it's a rehash of first game with a poor story and more hollow action lets be honest the combat from the series was it's weakest aspect naughty dog have ruined this series update 10 hrs in its just a massive. Leap backwars the only thing I have like is the open world section the dodge feature is terrible just a massive let down the last of us 2

One of the best stories of all time. Never does a game manage to impact on your emotions as heavily as TLOU2, whether good or bad, undoubtedly this game has impacted many people deeply. Round it off with stunning visuals, top class sound design and upgraded gameplay and you’ve got one of the best games of all time.
The Gameplay is average. But the Story of Part 2 is a big f**k you to all the fans of the first game. They literary rape us the entire story and at the end they piss over us too, as a bonus! I hope HBO does it better!



I really liked the first part. But THE LAST OF US PART II disappointed me. Video and surroundings 10 of 10. But the plot as such is missing. More precisely, he is, but after 9 hours I wanted to take a break for a week. The brain must rest from this boredom and dullness. (Pregnant doctor in the eighth month of pregnancy on the front line!!) WTF???
This game just killed of the whole plot that part 1 had been going between the bond between ellie and joel,just for them to kill off this character in the most dumb **** way,they even changed his **** personality,he was uneasy about any stranger yet in p 2 he decides nah everything its good lemme go with them,then trans senator Armstrong kills him and its the most pathetic revenge story,also why is there a character that looks like Neil and **** Armstrong? This game is just a bad expensive joke and every so called "reviewer" and "gaming experts" should **** off and let us the gamers review the game instead of blatantly lying to us their customers.
The best graphics ever in ps4!nice gameplay! excellent rolling in console with theses graphics but the game is not only the above i said but the biggest part of a game is the story!the story for me wasn't what i waiting for.i think if they kept the story for a game it would be perfect!but the director preferred to have a story for an art!so is different to rate a game because two different different worlds and beliefs corrupt!i think a game is not a Wright place to show a director what believes about what is a good and wright in Life because gaming is a hobby and not life!!
Good gameplay and graphics, but the story is very stupid. Easy to kill joel , bad ending you kill everyone but not kill abby If he was looking for her all the time to take revenge on Joel and all women this game super strong
the only positive/improvement in the game is the difficulty levels, giving the player a huge number of options about how they’d like to play. There’s no “easy mode” or “hard mode,” but rather a collection of settings you can turn up or down. You can adjust your allies’ health, for example, or increase the number of items Ellie finds while scavenging, while still leaving the enemies just as strong. Or you can go in the opposite direction, and decide you want to fight more able enemies and find fewer resources. If one encounter’s giving you trouble, you can bump enemy strength down right then and there, then change it back. That’s honestly the only positive aspect of Part 2, everything else regarding writing, world building, characters development old or new, gameplay, is seriously terrible, only other thing that might be positive is the multiplayer, which isn’t released yet. Thank you for reading.
Oof where do I start? Well the game is hot garbage with forced Identity politics and an agenda that is forced down your throat. Unlikable and uninteresting characters and a storyline written like a fan-fiction by an angry and confused teenager.The gameplay is pretty outdated and it barely improved since the previous game. On top of that- it turned out that all the leaks were true and the game was false advertised in the trailers and commercials. The game looks graphicaly pretty good but it doesn’t matter because you have to torture yourself with 30 fps. 10/10 Ign? haha the User score shows you the real and only rating that matters here people. Verdict: DO NOT BUY

Just finished the game, WOW WOW WOW what a story, one of the best in this generation, NAUGHTY DOG and NEIL DRUCKMANN are very very talented, loved the game, is a 20 out 10 for me.
Worst sequel ever in history of PlayStation, yes... it's that bad. From hero to zero, just stay away from game's directed by Neil Druckmann. He can't direc games no more, he's sjw side will always produce bad story and weak woke characters. Special thanks for Bruce Straley who made the first game as a shining star, the guy left naughty dog so probably we won't see same quality games anymore from naughty dog.
This game is slap in the face to all the true fans of the first game. I am not sure why the story had to be this crappy. If one of the most loved protagonists had to die, ND could've given them "better", more heroic death, possibly at the end of the game. I hope ND will lose a lot of money and will serve as an example to other companies, not to force political agendas where they shouldn't exist. The gameplay is ok, but not so much of improvement over the first game. The scenery and graphics are great. The story is crap and games like this should be all about the good story.
Neil drunkmann SuBvErTeD my expectations so hard that I hated everything good about this game. Killing Joel is not why this game is bad but the way they did it. Disrespecting the protagonist of the first game who is a veteran survivor for 20+ years for the sake of being just a shock factor and nothing more. The gameplay of this is copy and past from the first one, but now you can run-jump, run-smash and crouch. In conclusion, Abby good Abby smash. I give the adventures of abby part 2 a 2/10
No way is this game a 10/10, the story is terrible! I couldn't care less about the the characters here, even Ellie who i loved in the first game is dreadfully dull here. Graphics and gameplay are 10/10 but the story which made the first last of us one of my favourite games of all time is truly poor here.
They kill off the best character for she hulk and the gameplay get stale very quickly.Is sad what the did. The ending blows and the story suck
I am honestly so disappointed. I loved the first game and its story. No spoilers but it ruins everything for some **** progressive agenda. Why couldn't they focus on a good game and leave politics to politicians.

What can i say about this game after i finished it? Graphics in this game 9-10/10 Well done Graphics devs. Even those who saw just trailers can agree with me. Story 3/10 Every character that you loved in 1st game changed like they are gone forever. Game even forces you to play character THAT YOU HATE for 10+ hours and forces you empathize to him. When you dont care about that character fate. And were I was shocked and dissapointed its the end of the game. Game-play - 6/10 Same as it was in game one, but with many "Strange" things. Like when main character craft pipe bomb sets the fuse on fire aaaand put in back in backpack. "Holy **** I did something wrong and will explode now", the first time I thought. And then it caused only laughter. Replay-ability - NO! (Maybe only for those, who love to beat game on 100% and get all upgrades and all achievements) Well... This game is BAD? Ofcourse no. This game is PLAIN and BOORING. For fans of the game, I recommend play it, but you will not get the same emotions that you received from the first game.
the game had huge potential, ooc characters and plot holes damaged the story telling heavily, the game drags a lot, gameplay is stale and lacks creativity, one of the strong points is the environment and the graphics are amazing on that field nothing to say but good things. People were waiting for something close to the first game but this was not it. Didn't have fun playing it 2/10.
Where you would hope that gameplay would cover the monotony of a revenge story that has no breaks. You only get a a very dated feeling game that is very linear after the first hour. The narrative is not set up to make a meaningful story, but instead to make you mad. There is clear disrespect for original characters to bring in the days of political games. The game is going to frustrate and anger any fan of TLOUP1
Story is trash. Not what was advertised. Nerfed and killed my favorite gaming character of all time (and it’s not that he died, it’s how he died; because of his own stupidity that went against his character). Then I’m forced to play as someone I hated and wouldn’t have paid money to play as, had I known before. I spent an hour in the fight scene walking out and letting Ellie kill me over and over because I hated Abby. Motivations are stupid for main characters. Garbage and waste of money.
Even though I got spoiled about one of the major events, I still decided to go through with this game. By the end of it, my thoughts was graphics 8/10, game-play 4/10, story 1/10. The story just killed my enjoyment of The Last of Us Part 2 completely. Joel's relationship with Ellie is spat upon, characters make ridiculous/idiotic choices, and the new character played by Laura Bailey, is, in my opinion, the worst video game character of all time. Not only that but the ending is just awful. It completely undoes everything everyone was trying to accomplish and made playing through the game a complete waste of time. The game-play was similar as the first Last of Us and became a literal chore after hours of playing, as it was just the same stealth sequences in different areas. Plus the fact that we are also forced to play as Abby which is such a dis-likable character for hours on end just made the overall experience worse and the slow paced game-play even more painful and tedious to go through.
From a technical perspective (considering graphics, sound and scale), this game is an incredible achievement. But, this series is absolutely pointless without its top notch storytelling, that we seen in the first game. Its what defines the whole experience. The Last of Us. Part 2, manages to destroy the very aspect that made the series a gigantic success, it story. This game as an experience, is empty. A ridiculous plot of revenge with several holes, wasted characters that achieve nothing and a "conclusion" to the series that leads to absolutely nowhere...
I absolutely loved it. The chapters could have been structured differently to improve on the pacing. Besides that, graphics, gameplay and story were all great. Unexpectedly, I cared more for Abby in the end than I did Ellie.
There's a bit of game on this leftist propaganda... Besides, I'm really hurt by the advertising of this game that leaded is to think Joel would be important at some degree... That manipulation was so awful! I cannot believe something like that could have been approved by someone! We should thank Anita Sarkeesian for dragging another franchise to ruins
Jogo com contexto completamente contrário ao primeiro, Joel morrer de uma forma tão fora do seu personagem.


Missing choices make it mindless slaughter in my opinion. Technically there is nothing to complain about but making something which is fine technically makes no great game or something entertaining.

Я не увидел все тех феминистических, трансгендерных и прочих *уистических тем, актуальных и обсуждаемых в деградирующем обществе. Я увидел неплохую историю об искуплении, за которой было интересно, (хоть и немного затянуто наблюдать).
One of the best game +For me story was good (some people will not like the story) +Graphic feel next gen just wow + Music is one of the best +Gameplay is really engaging you can run or do stealth or fight its your choice

The last of us parte 2 es un juego perfecto, buena jugabilidad, Buenos gráficos, buena historia, original y muy bien pensada por parte de naughty dog, de como al principio puedes odiar tanto a Abby por matar a Joel pero, cuando empiezas a jugar con ella, poco a poco vas entendiendo porqué hizo lo que hizo, es una experiencia única y emocionalmente que te va a llegar al corazón, como una pareja del mismo sexo puede encajar tan bien, en definitiva, este juego es exelente, justo lo que esperábamos de naughty dog, solo, que, la gente lolo critica tanto es por su principio tan drástico, fue al grano y de una manera no tan agradable para los fans, pero como dije antes, cuando más vas jugandentendiendo todo, lo cual hace una maravilla este videojuego, no te dejes influenciar de los comentarios de los demás, este juego vale todo y no te vas a arrepentir.
Excelente mecánicas de juego, la ambientación es una maravilla y los gráficos parecen de mentira de lo hermoso que son, la historia hubieran algunas partes que me disgustaran como su final pero aun asi se me hizo disfrutable
Gameplay is ok, Graphic is phenomenal however for some reason the Story is so bad, it really ruined the expectation for die hard fans.the dev should follow the narrative from the original story rather than came up with different twist of the story
Game is fun to play and graphics are incredible! With that said its such a terrible story. Plot holes on some characters decisions. Probably worst ending. Completely disregarding what their characters meant to people. Just bad writing. The game over all was okay. Just ok.
This game was such a disappointment. All the high end polish you'd expect from a ND game. But when the story is such and integral part of this game, when it falls flat as hard as it does the entire game suffers. I played through twice. I just didn't care. Sold the game used today.
The Last of Us Part 2 game is great in every category except it's some part of the story. It has very little good moments in the story, overall the story and narrative of the game is REALLY GOOD if you really like Dark genre
Es un juego muy redondo que te hace pensar en el transfondo del estado de Ánimo de los personajes, hubieron cosas forzadas, pero el hecho de que critiquen un final, que según luego de una matanza no logras tu cometido, se me hace una tontería, ya que la matanza es subjetiva, puedes no matar a casi nadie y las únicas muertes "Canon" son de 4 personas, las cuales a las últimas dos, Mel y Owen, se nota como afecta mentalmente a la persona de Ellie. El juego como tal me parece sublime, flojea un poco, pero no se le puede pedir un juego perfecto, porque no existe. TLOU1 luce por su historia magistral, pero cojea en la jugabilidad y espacios cerrados, este TLOU2 es todo lo contrario y no por eso es un mal juego, al contrario es una belleza visual, sonora, además de sus físicas de escándalo y su inteligencia artificial, en si es un juego de 10, y dónde cojea un poco es en la historia, que apesar de no ser tan memorable, hace un buen juego, mi 10 no significa que el juego es perfecto, sino que vale cada centavo que pagas por el vídeojuego.
The developer has put really hard work on this game, I have only issue that they gave us false trailer to promote their game, the game is good otherwise. Its a revenge story and both sides played their part and it eventually ends well, Beautiful graphics Beautiful music Story is good a little stretched though
Melhor pra mim n tem nd de errado com a história n sei porque tanto hate no jogo
El apartado técnico es fabuloso, al igual que el diseño de nivel y de sonido, el único problema del título son algunas decisiones que toma Ellie, pero en general es un producto que debes comprar sí o sí
The only good thing about this game are the graphic. The gameplay is pretty much the same as the first one. the enemy IA is ok the compagnon is dumb tho. the story is horrible and make no sens at all. I love the first story I finished the game 5 time. but part 2, I have no idea what they were thinking. it feel like the story was writing by someone who have ZERO experience in story telling!! Oh and they also lied about Joel in every trailer!! Very disappointed by naughtydog! Never buying a game from them again! I Brought the game back and exchanged it/preordered ghost of Tsushima.
Gameplay: 9/10 Graphics: 10/10 Sound & music: 10/10 Cinematography: 10/10 Story: 0 Overall Experience: 5/10 (because story is 50% contributor to the overall experience) The story seems like someone had all the pages of the masterfully written story and had accidentally dropped the pages in the wind and never knew how to put them back in order again, as the pages had no numbers. So they made the game story based on the randomly shuffled pages. Firstly, why the hell did they have to kill Joel? I know at the end of the day its “their” character and story, so they can do whatever they like. But, why? How could they possibly think it was a good idea to kill the most lovable character at the beginning of the game in such a brutally unfair manner? Especially right after he saved that stupid girl’s life from imminent death? Thats an intentional trauma the writers exposed all the fans to. At that point, I was so traumatized as though someone had murdered a real person that I knew in front of me. The only reason why I reluctantly continued playing was to make sure that the stupid murderous **** gets ripped to shreds by the time I get to her. It would have at least served justice, even though it would never bring back Joel again. How foolish was I... They actually make you play the character you want to kill in the worse way possible and force feed you sugar and candy, hoping to make you care?????? WTF?! I absolutely hated every second of it. I did not want to play her at all. Isn't making you forcefully play something that makes you unhappy and uncomfortable practically mind rape? I dont care if she was as innocent as mother tressa... she killed someone I loved. All I care about now is to make sure that she dies in the worst way humanly possible! But no. They don’t even give you that least amount of satisfaction. They make YOU hurt the last remaining character you care about without any other choices and then expect you to applaud when out beloved character randomly decides to let her live (WITHOUT US HAVING ANY CHOICE IN IT)?!? What was the point of this? It might as well have been a film, since the player has no control over any of the main events in the game. It seems that the game played us and we paid for it with our time, money and broken hearts.
So disappointed with this game, everything is perfect except for the story, 10 full hours of this game was hell, now I know why they said to keep and open mind, I wasted 60 bucks on this game, how could they do this do all the fans of the first game


Very disappointed in the game tbh, nothing like the first part, it became very delusional as you move on with the story, could have been written much much better.

Stunning disappointment. Massive Failure of Storytelling. Fans Love characters and the relationship between Joel and Ellie. Naughty Dog already had us. To make a second part was not a difficult task. Neil had easy. They made a fantastic 1st part and DLC. They have no respect for Joels live or Ellies }
the game is game of the generation. It makes you feel conflicting , uncomfortable feelings and shameful of what you have done .its not usual feeling for a video game and that's why its amazing. Gameplay is also class leading. It is simply the game of the generation.
I do not think the game is too bad. Gameplay and Visuals are great except bad story narration. I was really bored while playing as Abby and I can not sympathize with her even at the end of the game. Quite disappointing.
I'll start by saying that from a technical standpoint what they've managed to squeeze out of 7 year old hardware is phenomenal. The soundtrack and the fluidity of the games animations and character movement are top shelf also, however sadly for me this is where it ends. The story is incredibly poorly written and the ending made me question the whole point of it, and not in a good way. The treatment of some of the legacy characters is infuriating because of how they act completely differently from the first game. Joel and Tommy seem to have suffered from the worst case of amnesia recorded in human history and this is completely out of character and makes zero sense as they would never act the way they did in that certain scenario. Some of the dialogue used in game made me roll my eyes in disbelief ("Bigot sandwiches" and "Brainless brother duo") as its just bad and ultimately cringe-worthy. The newly added jump button is implemented badly and seems to be there as a filler but the combat has improved from the first one and the newly added vertical scenarios make some combat situations interesting. Crafting is identical to its predecessor with the addition of a silencer that can help greatly during battle although the bow is still the stealth weapon of choice. Sadly though in my opinion this game pales in comparison to its predecessor for its storytelling and character development and that's a damn shame. I really can't recommend this game for anything other than its visuals and audio but as we all know it takes more than a pretty paint job and a nice song to impress some people, myself included.
Часть игры за Элли хороша. Но часть за другую героиню это просто жесть. Без блевотных порывов на неё не взглянешь. Да как вообще можно было создать настолько нелепого героя! Прилепили женскую башку к мужскому телу вот и всё. Вторая часть игры не просто на 0 из10. Она уводит оценку в минус

I will never be able to describe the feeling I had playing the last of us. The countless play throughs Brought me joy That other games could not. Now I found myself playing part two just wanting to finish the game so I can get it over with. I’ve waited so long as so many other people for this just to be ruined by one person’s political/morale views. STORY: Having Joel die for the sake of plot is such an lazy act of writing. I couldn’t even comprehend it happening while waiting for the game to release. As I witnessed his death I closed open my eyes and I had to takeoff my headphones and cried. I was crying for the fact that I couldn’t believe that this was actually happening I waited for years and supported naughty dog for them to sh** right in my face I balled out crying Knowing that the character i respected died like he was nothing. And for that it killed my enjoyment of the rest of the game. Having this take place in three days adds to the laziness. This game is very similar to uncharted in terms of how “action packed” it is in the span of time. It was very believable that Joe had that many encounters while traveling across America protecting Ellie, now Ellie fights a group of 20 people/infected every 10 minutes and is ready to go go at the next moments notice. CHARACTERS: I do not care for any of the characters except for Tommy and Eli everyone could died and I wouldn’t blink an eye. Having me play as Joel’s killer felt like I was just spat in the face constantly while playing.I remember tearing up when Tess died I remember tearing up when bills lover didn’t want to be with him I remember tearing up when Sam died and his brother killed himself now I could care less. most characters are cringe or annoying. unfortunately the only non-annoying character is Jesse which people might call me sexist because he’s a male. ELLIE: what made Ellie special was the relationship between her and Joel, having the father daughter bond or Having them travel across America and her seeing all these monuments and museums and asking these questions on how things actually were before and Joel knowing and explaining and seeing her in disbelief is what made these two characters solid, now when they go to a Monument, Museum or store they always say the same thing “I can’t believe they used to do this” or “I can’t believe they used to do that” haha hehe humans where weird. Now that the connection is gone I just feel like I have to be forced to care about there funny jokes of the past. ABBY: Being FORCED to play as Abby during a big portion of the game was not enjoyable at all. The fact that they made her the “female Joel” made me want to stop playing immediately. combat was fun yes, but I did not want to play as Abby I did not want to see her story I did not want to see her feelings because I did not care. For some reason this game try’s to make you understand her, the only thing I understood Was that she needed to die. GAME PLAY: Naughty dog always was good with game play, but in this game it waste so much time of you walking around during these “game play” cut scenes, That you find yourself bored and just wanting to get it over with. I’m actually kind of disappointed with some of the variations in game play stealth killing people is the exact same Animation over and over again no matter what character you play which is lazy and boring. I found myself having the same exact death animation as well ; getting shot in the head. I did not die any other way. Graphics: Beautiful but wasted. This is such a forced game that I hope it bites Neil in his a** this is propaganda at its finest. I was 13 when the last of us came out I DO-NOT care that Eli is the main protagonist, so it’s not me being a misogynist this is Neil being a beta.
This is an absolute abomination. They butchered the story and it is clear character assassination, Joel is nothing like he was in the first game, makes a very stupid and out of character mistake that real Joel would never do. They went for shock value... so many disgusting scenes. The graphics are downgraded compared what they originally showed and the gameplay is still mediocre, this product has nothing to offer.
Truly an amazing game! Definitely worth the playthrough of 30h. Play the game and give an honest review, please! For the sake of game makers and storytellers, stop the **** review bombing! Let's give it the score it deserves.
worst things has happened to TLOU2 and ND and that was the "SPOILERS" yeah that is the cause of all fake 0s and 10s! about the game,ND has done a very risky job with the story of TLOU2 but in my opinion it was perfect in all the ways gameplay was perfect as it was for TLOU1 animation are so stunning,its pushing the game industry in to a new level,same for graphics some people may find this game very bad(its there opinion and respectfull)but I suggest look deeper in the story and you’ll find it a masterpiece

The graphics, sound design and gameplay are all amazing. Beautiful scenery. 10/10 They way 'you know who' killed Joel pissed me off. ND should have made him sacrifice his life for Ellie in the end instead of beating him to death with a golf club. A disservice to fan's of the first game. Completely dragging them through the dirt for what? Write compelling story archs for new characters and leave the existing ones alone. That's why I dropped it to a 3
Сюжет явно не тот , который все ждали . Геймплей однообразный . Эбби - худший персонаж из игры , не имеет чувств и тебя обязывают играть за нее . Игра полностью заслужила хейт в свою сторону . #slave'slivesmatter

Saya ucapkan selamat dan terima kasih banyak karena alur cerita dan terutama ending cerita The Last Of Us Part II. Sekali lagi terima kasih banyak.

Characters were well portrayed; but implementation of the story continued with hazy writing, as well as frustrating and sometimes confusing flashbacks is just a burden for players. Character swap occurs wayyy too often, and the story truly became boring.
The story is awful.. Joel butchered like a dog by a character no one cares for is outrageous you are forced to play as this behemoth of a woman and attack Ellie who is the protagonist. Very disappointing storytelling. Graphic and gameplay are nice.
The story is garbage. Naughty Dog is a great company, but they deceived us with fakes in trailers and Druckmann lied when he said that Ellie would be the only playable character.
I know that some things doesn't go the way we want in the game but it's relatable with real life too cause see life's not a fairy tale where everyone is happy there's no problem it doesn't happen like that so this game is also like that only it's just the gamers who are not accepting that fact.....
Hugely dissapointing story, takes much beloved characters and ruins them. Joel is laying low and yet goes around telling everyone who he is....where was his carefulness from the first game? He just stopped caring it seems. There was a million ways to have his name known that didnt involve him telling everyone who he js. And Ellie....the ending is abysmal. They took two much beloved characters and took a steaming dump on them.
The game has nice graphics and good music. Attention to detail and the feeling of world life is presented at a master's level. The weapon expansion system or the opponents AI also did very well. All in all it is an ND game. Unfortunately, the story itself did not appeal to me. Killing Joel - a veteran by Abby without knowing her motives, then forcing the player to play her makes the game frustrating. But maybe that was the director's endeavor. The ending of the game is equally annoying. Ellie decides to let go of Abby, who also killed Tommy-brother Joel, at the very end of Ellie concludes that revenge is bad? She couldn't imagine it when she brutally murdered Abby's friends [e.g. Nora]. For me, as a person attached to the first part, the story is disappointing. Gameplay is very similar to the first part, not too many new solutions introduced. Most zombie opponents are the same, probably a new type or two has been added. While facial expressions and the expansion of live opponents is admirable. After killing a dog, its owner calls him by name! Overall, this is a good game, although not revolutionary like the first part. As a continuation of Ellie's adventures, the game falls out worse. It took me about 28 hours to complete the game.
Story telling at it's worst do not bother with this if you care about the first game. As far as I'm concerned this game doesn't exist. also negative reviews are not being counted only positive ones to even the score pathetic!!!

Avoid this game at all costs if you enjoyed Part 1. This is a bastardization of the characters you knew and loved. There are long and boring areas and several hours with nothing to do at all except search hoping to advance the story. But trust me on this, you don't want to advance the story. You want to request a refund immediately.
Buen juego pero desgraciadamente es tendencioso en forzar la inclusividad que tanto daño hace a la sociedad.
Gioco perverso nella storia e nel design e nei messaggi ideologici che offre ai fans, il direttore creativo andrebbe licenziato e vietato di mettere mano a mai nessun altro videogioco; uccidere Joel il personaggio più amato dai fans, ma scherziamo!? finale super-patetico. Gioco bocciato.
Game full of sjw bullsh***t, with a story that makes any fan of the first game disappointed, the only good thing of this sjw garbage is the graphics and gameplay.
The story is very BAD and Ellie is weak person and the ending is just a time wasting.





very satisfied with the sequel although most people hated it. It takes a weird turn about 75% of the way through I hated but by the end I found myself enjoying
Більше емоцій я ще в жодній грі не діставав,для мене це найкраща гра що я грав.Надіюсь розробники не опустять руки і зроблять продовження.Гра СУПЕР
I never really was a fan of the gameplay of the last of us that's not really why I played that game. It was all about the story and the characters but the last of us part 2 feels so far out of place. Some of the scenes in this game feel so forced and uncomfortable. This ain't it!
Ignorar todo el odio que tienen este juego, es la gente que ni lo a jugado que está llorando por todas partes , una por qué es solo se la play y otra por qué les da una rabia ... yo llevo 5 horas y me está encantado muy recomendable a todo fan de juegos single player
First, technically it’s a marvel, graphic, details, audio, everything is top tier. Personally I didn’t hate the story, it is not as impressive as the first one tho, I think the way to play as two characters that fight against each other in the end is innovative, by so I can see both sides and all the consequences. The theme of the sequel is obviously “vengeance is useless” to my understanding and what the two characters did in the ending just serves the theme properly, so there’s actually not too much to complain. The only thing I can’t take and not happy with is Joel’s death, not that Joel can’t die, just in the situation where Joel saved Abby, but what Abby gave him is torturing, humiliation and death, that’s just too brutal for everyone even those first timer, not to mention those fans of the first game like me.
Visuals- better than the first game. Gameplay- About the same. Moving things around to get from place to place replaced with jump. Story- Pretty much uprooted the first game, put into a fire pit, and burned. The characters are turned 180 degrees and pretty much unnoticeable. Post apocalyptic



As a fan of the original, I am very much liking this one as well. Everything I loved about the first game is present here. These are some of the most beautiful, most detailed environments I’ve ever seen in a video game. The performance capture and writing is excellent, and the story swings between brutal lows and genuinely sweet highs.
This game is **** and disrespectful the gameplay is ok and graphics are good who cares when the writing is this poor absolute worst story I ever played
Short review save your money, don't buy Story 3/10, Characters 4/10, Gameplay 7/10, Graphics 10/10 For game that's heavily based on story narrative, it is filled with plot holes and moronic decisions. Spoiler but if you were looking for an Ellie and Joel team play you will be sorry. Not only does Ellie and Joel not interact with each other but Joel dies 2 hours into the game by a new protagonist Abby. In which the game makes you play 14 hours as this character trying to make you feel sympathetic, how can you feel sympathetic when Joel saved Abby's life from a horde of Clickers only to be brutally murdered at abbys hands but it's okay it's a Revenge story remember, you know that you're going to kill Abby in the end right. Well you would be wrong not only do you not get a choice to kill her but after killing hundreds if not thousands of people to get to her at the very end you get an epiphany that you shouldn't kill her because revenge is bad. And that's just a story. Characters are bland two dimensional personality, there was little to no character development at all. This was a real disappointment considering ln The Last of Us 1 had a lot of character building it really put you into the story made you feel immersed into the environment when the protagonist was hurt you felt it when the protagonist was feeling Joy you felt it. This game however felt as if it was trying way too hard to achieve something that was just not there. It has left me more angry and frustrated then any other emotion. Gameplay was better than the last of us 1 however due to the story I just could not enjoy it and is why my score for gameplay is 7 out of 10, there's nothing really overly new besides two new enemies and a jump mechanic that's laughably horrible. Graphics are the only selling point I could give this game, it looks absolutely amazing seeing how the world being overtaken by Nature is just jaw dropping and can be arguably next gen graphics or the absolute pinnacle of PlayStation 4. Overall I feel like this game is a complete failure narrative wise. Gameplay was niche but not enjoyable. Characters Hollow and unlikable.
I really hated this. This is the most cynical game I’ve played in a long time. Whilst it has a message about identity politics, it has no story, or at least one the makes sense. It just meanders without any over-riding sense of purpose. The structure isn’t clever; in fact, it works against the faux narrative. It’s attempt to make you care about the character of Abbey is so obvious and poorly-executed that you’ll be yelling at the screen. In fact, I’ve spent too much time on this game already. A toxic experience.
I would give a better score if the developer had some respect for the original. Gameplay is excellent and the game looks stunning. Neil Druckman clearly felt his own agenda was more important then the love for the original lore of millions of fans. He might have wondered how he could top what happened with Starwars. And he did. The story was ok for the first 12 hours, but kept getting worse after that. Naughty dog, skip Druckman, and find someone who loves games, the fans and writing a beautifull touching story. But if your goal is to get your fanbase as depressed as possible, you have succeeded.(not talking about myself) And for what its worth, i don't care about gender, sexual preferences or ideology. Focus on a good story. Naughty dog had every tool available to create the most epic game ever, and yet brought us a forced tale of weak morals. A tale of lost opportunity. And a lot of potential lost.
The game looks. And feels bad. The characters really bad written. Joel deserves to die in a better way.
I Really liked this game, I actually saw people mad at the story Because it killed a "beloved character" but I don't see that as something The game as awesome graphics and amazing details. The Gameplay is pretty solid.
This is one of the best games with one of the best character driven stories I have ever played. I didn’t think I’d like certain parts or characters, but Naughty Dog brought them to life and made me fall in love with them. The majority of the bad player reviews are review bombs. Some because of the diversity this game uses, others because they don’t get to play as their favorite character. They haven’t given the game a chance and therefore are missing out.
The game is absolutely a masterpiece, amazing twists, gameplay, physics, Movement freedom.... etc. Everyone who gives a bad rating are one of 3 cases: 1- get so sad from the first twist. 2- haven’t played the game at all. 3- can’t get it (console exclusive). Go and buy it.

This game rely bad, game-play mechanics the same (TLoU + Uncharted) and don't give anything new, story boring and not touching you, characters are plain. Neil Druckmann worst director
This game is so bad that it basically ends the era of narrative driven games. All major studios will focus on open world now, which is rather sad. Video game has so much potential and dimensions in presenting unique stories and characters. How they messed this up, we probably will never know.
I really liked the game, gameplay wise feels a lot more polished than the previous one, and I liked the story. often in games protagonists don't suffer real consequences for their actions, so yeah I am happy Joel died


Not a bad game, not a masterpiece. Stealth, level design, audio, and graphics are incredible. Too much downplay between actual gameplay without any character development. Story is flashback fest. maybe if the scenes were placed chronologically, it could've told a decent story. Story is disappointing. But there is lots of good in this.
This is a really well crafted game But the story Ending is complete stupid. Story starts quite amazing but the ending sucks. The Graphics are Unbelievably good. Game play is same as old. overall its a good game and must play. don't believe the rating many of the xbox fan boys have spam it.
Metacritic no longer a viable source for reviews. It is not a 0/10 game period. Just like Facebook its time for a new platform. Trolls will be saying ghost of tsushima is 0/10 next when it's clearly not. Apparently one of the actors was getting death threats...... From last of us 2. Absolutely pathetic!! Video games are by far the best medium of entertainment, why try and destroy with hate and jealously. Without superb games like this I'd be lost watching crapy TV and looking at photos of friends sloppy dinners on Facebook. Trolls embrace the artistical brilliance of story tellers unbounded cameras and film. Play it before condemning it, you are modern day digital cancer.
OMG It’s LIKE the BEST. GAME. EVEEEERRR!!! The first Last of Us is a masterpiece. In Part 2, I appreciate the craftsmanship with regard to the Graphics Design, Sound Design, Animations, Visual Effects and Gameplay is great BUT the story, characters and script are awfully bad. I feel, there’s something fishy going on behind the scenes at Naughty Dog. That, or Neil Druckmann incompetent. I do not appreciate the Agenda/Ulterior Motives being shoved it my face. I do not recommend The Last of Us Part II. Play and enjoy the first game and pretend this sequel doesn’t exist.

This game is so bad that its not good. A politically correct piece of bread baked to shove agendas down the people's throat. Games should be about escapism not to force agendas and ideas down the people's throat it's akin to dictatorship. Play got instead.

The game is not bad has some are saying!!! the graphics yes are amazing but the story could be alot better and comparing with the games of 2020 it stays alot behind from other games in terms of story and for me in my opinion there were alot better story in other games, but likes are diferent in every person. I will not spoil the game but if you haven't played you should play, but play the other games of 2020 so you can get better view at all the games and not bee a fan boy just because its Naughty Dog does not mean all games are perfect they can fail like every others humans...
Could have been a masterpiece, but messed it up with a poorly executed storyline, bad character development, very long boring cut scenes and pointless boring levels that are supposed to develop the back story. A story about revenge, but spends a lot of time focused on relationship building with really unnatural poor dialogue and character decisions that seem illogical and out of character. Awesome graphics and attention to detail in environments - felt really ripped off that I had to play a character I hated that was not advertised or promoted in any of the trailers. Really misleading marketing. I got the platinum and finishing it the second time skipping cut scenes, I finished it half the time. there is too much padding that adds no value to the story or immersion. TLDR; Boring. Wait until later to buy it if you haven't already - there has been a record number of trade ins and definitely not the sort of game I would ever play again.


It's clearly filled with a god damn political probaganda.. the story+character development are so bad it's disgusting, as for the graphics it's a giving considering the PS4 has been out for 7 years, unfortunately the graphics were not as good as Death Stranding or GoW. The writers/Director **** up with this one so bad everyone is taking to social media to ask for a refund. I can't believe I wasted 48 hours playing and finishing this damn thing (because this is clearly not a videogame).
Played it for the First Time and already i have seen many plot Holes and unlogical Charakter decisions. For example: right before Joel gets Killed, they all are in the Same room. Tommy should have Seen Abby behind him with a Shotgun pointing at Joel. Camera angle doesnt Show, but Tommy should have Seen it.
Good: Graphics, gameplay, set pieces, enemies/strategy involved, mechanics. Unique enemies. Bad: The story [stereotypical sequel killing a character for a forced revenge story. Revenge story was boring and uninspired. Any good story development was for a new character.] The characters [ruined Ellie, just made her some brooding angry person with none of her charm or wittiness from first game. Exact same w Tommy. Introduce half baked and uninteresting characters throughout the game.] Over-abundance of modern political commentary [so much of the story is just jam-packed with trying to hit as many political issues as possible, and either comment on them or make them an integral part of the story spent hours and hours on, in an attempt to seem inclusive but just comes off as obnoxious and takes away from a more realistic story in the post-apocalypse]. Best and most well done aspect of the first game was characters and story, which completely missed the mark this time. Played thoroughly, got 31 hrs out of the game. So disappointed in the decline from such a great first game, have to take an extra mark off for that
This is a poor game of revenge. No one acts like they did before. Joel and Ellie act like they dropped a few IQ points since the first game. The theme of humans are the real monsters falls apart since it feels completely contrived. The theme of 'revenge never pays off' falls apart since the clear villain of the game gets everything she wants by the end of it. For a better game of revenge, please see Assassin's Creed II.
After playing the game, I was amazed by the graphics & realistic gestures of this game portrays in real Apocalypse "End of World" scenario. The reason for the score was the story. It was to many cliches, dragged out srory, and many injustices in the sequel that makes you want to stop and start up the amazing prequel.
People are just bombing this because they think they will make a point about something. The game is good over all, I have actually really enjoyed it, and the parts people are pissed about really isn’t that bad. Great over all game, but it is definitely a game that you have to play and decide for yourself
I never knew how hard it would be to convince myself to continue playing a video game. I look to video games for fun and enjoyment. This game was a major letdown and had me angry so many times. Wasted potential. Please do yourself a favor and skip this game. I want to pretend this doesn't exist and the first game is the only canon.
Yes the game is beautiful, that I have to admit. The gameplay was fluid and the environments have great atmosphere. But the reason I play these games is for the story... and what a horror show this was. I seriously considered stopping playing 2-3 times because of the decisions that were made. I will not go into detail about the anti-male feel I had during the whole game, but it really made me uncomfortable at times. On a gameplay level it slightly improved on the previous game, but it also borrowed so much from it, playing it very safe. All in all I can't understand where the 10/10 comes from .. I really don't. And the trailers did indeed lie about the story played out .. big time. Edit: Just finished the game and I need to change my score from 2 to 1. This is the first time I hated the game I was playing. never happened to me. Forcing fans of the first game to play as the killer of your favorite character of all time is not ok .. ever.
I played 15 hours and I'll tell you, I don't want to play Abby, you just ruined the game. Erase that part from canon and bring Joel back.
Fantastico, emozionante, intenso. Ti mette nei panni del "nemico" di ellie scoprendo che ha i suoi buoni motivi. Storia pazzesca ti capire tanto anche della vita reale, chi dice il contrario non capisce bene le ottime trame TOP GAME

I was going to give this a little higher score but I just can not. This game craps all over the legacy that was the first. You can easily tell this was written by someone different than the original. Agendas abound but beside that it does nothing to differentiate itself from the original in terms of game play, oh wait you can jump now, I forgot! The story is horrible and you have 0 player agency. The game is a 0 but it IS beautiful in a graphical sense. But graphics does not a great game make. If you read ANY review and it says some form of "don't believe the haters" or some such nonsense, by all means go ahead and buy this game and waste your hard earned money. I certainly won't do it again!
Decepción. Quitan a uno de los principales protagonistas y poner que ser homosexual y drogarse es lo que mola. Me es indiferente que elli sea Lesbi, pero que no te lo acentúen por encima de la historia, como si su condición sexual fuera lo prioritario e importante de la historia.La obligación de jugar con un personaje al que detestas me parece nauseabundo en un juego y la oblogación de terminar el juego para matar a abby y que esto no se produzca otra decepción. gráficos y jugabilidad de 9, pero por el cariño que me creo la primera entrega y la penosa continuación de esta me hacen calificarlo con un cero,Los videojuegos son para disfrutar y divertirse, no es una película o serie, nos identificamos con los personajes que llevamos y por eso cada cual elige el juego que mas se adecua a su personalidad, la política y lo debidamente correcto debería mantenerse al margen, ya que tenemos juegos de todos los sexos,colores y variedad para elegirlos.
A gameplay em si é basicamente igual a do primeiro só que muito bem mais melhorado, mas também não ficam atrás os gráficos, pois melhoram bastante e com uma boa exploração + cenários não repetitivo. A história é bem fraca comparado ao primeiro, além de certas cenas forçadas e momentos que esquecem completamente como o personagem realmente é o fazendo agir de maneira trivial(Tipo a morte de Joel que foi bem sem emoção e ignorando que ele já mais confiaria em um estranho). Gameplay: 9/10 Gráficos: 9.5/10 História: 5/10
El juego es una delicia jugable, así como portento gráfico y técnico, pero hay algo que pesa más que todo esto, y es que esta secuela no era necesaria. No es necesario crear la secuela de un gran juego simplemente por interés político y propagandístico. TLoU2 tiene el peor guión jamás escrito, sin sentido y forzado. Se creen muy transgresores por acabar con ciertos personajes como lo hacen y dar protagonismo a un personaje salido de la nada y quien nadie quiere, y para más inri encima: "tia, la venganza es super mala tia". En fin... Esperando con ganas a Gosth of Tsushima, que espero que en este no metan su mierda propagandística.
Сюжет слит, абсолютно не достойное продление. + повестка
I loved the first Last of us, but this one is very disappointing. If you want to see Joel getting beaten by Abby with a golf club and being forced to play with her for half of the game, then go ahead. Waste your money
This game and it's agenda is absolute trash. "woke" garbage brainwashing gamers into submission so that if you voice your opinion in disagreement they make you out to be a bad guy. It is, i had a feeling the things i was hearing before the game came out were a little harsh but now i know it was spot on. Game itself is boring, best characters are being spit on by the developers. The story is extraordinarily bad.
Good gameplay although its kinda outdated and really basic, amazing graphics and cutscenes but all of this doesnt cover up the mess it really is and the bad story, feels like acquiring all the infinity stones just to not snap it, bad revenge story... didnt enjoy any bit of the story only 2 characters are interesting .... and they are not the main
The few Positives first the game is ABSOLUTELY GORGEOUS LEGITIMATELY ONE OF THE MOST BEAUTIFUL GAMES I'VE EVER SEEN. And gameplay is just a beefed up version of the first game and now the bad. This games story is honestly one of the worst sequels of all time they turn geole in to a **** plot device abby is made out to be the protagonist and we are made to feel sorry for her. But we only have motivation to hate her she is a ruthless and sadistic character. She has no reason to be liked and viewed as a hero of the story when she is clearly the villain . not to mention the copious amounts of sences from trailers that are completely different in the game basiclly scaming people who wanted to see hella and Ellie do there **** . over all this games story is a absolute train wreck and not the good kind. Don't buy this
Great graphics and gameplay, the story is just all over the place, would have been better if some parts where shown earlier than they were in the actual game
A visual masterpiece and solid combat mechanics. It's sad to say this as a big fan of the first one, but plot was disappointing. One of the brilliant things a game can do is capture you emotionally. The developers accomplished this, but disappointment is all i I felt by the end. I am not sure what the goal is by destroying or twisting what you loved about the first installment...
Na minha opinião, o game em si foi bem decepcionante, minha nota 2 vai de consolação para a equipe técnica que fez um excelente trabalho no jogo quando falamos de qualidade gráfica e detalhamento do mapa, agora vamos ao porque que o jogo não merece mais pontos: O jogo é repetitivo e entediante, embora tenha mapas amplos, quase não há infectados, os inimigos não colocam medo no jogador e você praticamente não sente nenhuma progressão de dificuldade no jogo o que o torna chato, entediante e repetitivo. você mais assiste a cutscenes e caminha pelo mapa do que enfrenta inimigos.. Mesmo sendo adiado diversas vezes para ser lapidado, o game apresenta diversos bugs que em alguns momentos chegam a atrapalhar a jogabilidade, como o fato do Rifle, apenas o Rifle não disparar... diversos flics pelo mapa e é claro, os clássicos problemas de atravessar objetos, paredes, grama, personagens dentro do chão e por ai vai.... A história em si foi muito mal elaborada, personagens pouco explorados "tanto os novos quanto os antigos" você não cria nenhum vinculo afetivo com eles, apenas a sede de vingança para espancar a Abby até a morte, coisa que faz a história girar em torno deste objetivo, porém o diretor não deixa isso acontecer e decidiu manter Abby viva, mesmo tendo matado o protagonista principal da primeira parte e literalmente cuspido no passado. O jogo não trás nenhuma opção para o jogador decidir se quer ou não matar Abby para que ele tome as próprias decisões... faz o jogador simplesmente aceitar tudo e terminar o jogo com o sentimento que todas as horas de gameplay não valeram de nada. Joel foi praticamente transformado em um membro burro do grupo, já que no primeiro game o cara não confiava em ninguém, já nesse do nada resolve ajudar desconhecida, ir até o esconderijo do grupo todo inocente e ainda falar o nome pra todos... tem uma morte criada apenas para que o game tivesse um motivo para existir, já que ele é morto pela filha do **** médico figurante do final do primeiro jogo... Além de tudo, o jogo te obriga a jogar com a vilã e faz de tudo para que você se identifique com ela e crie carisma, o que de jeito nenhum acontece, vc quer matar a abby em todas as oportunidades. Porém, o final do game mostra que tudo o que jogou não valeu de nada, e que na real o jogo só queria te passar uma lição de moral regada a propagandas voltadas a assuntos políticos e sociais que são polêmicos nos dias de hoje, o jogo tenta passar a ideia de que a vingança não compensa e que temos que perdoar independente da maldade que o outro nos fez, só que ao longo do caminho a Ellie mata friamente diversas pessoas para finalmente ter a chance de matar a vilã mas desiste, ou seja as outras vidas foram todas em vão, se fosse pra perdoar, que ficasse em casa tocando o violão (com todos os dedos). Desse modo, digo que o game teve um hype muito grande regado a opiniões de críticos tendenciosos e trailers mentirosos que nos passaram a ideia que o jogo seria sensacional, tanto em história quanto a gameplay, mas entregarem um jogo que a história é péssima, uma jogabilidade que não impressiona em, porém tudo apresentado com gráficos lindos... ou seja, o jogo só tem gráfico. Para finalizar, o jogo vendeu uma propaganda enganosa que nos fez pensar que teriamos um belo jogo com ellye e o joel, mas nos obriga a jogar com a filha de um npc... Propaganda enganosa é crime!
I love the graphics just didn't care for the story. I would had make it a 3 but all the stuff going on. It is a fun game just a bad story that need to be fix. They need to fix all the bots. Just work on these platform to take out all the positive and negative bot reviews, and being called a hate for lbgt for not liking these story line is stupid. I support lbgt just not these stupid story driving base.
just a horrible story waste of 7 years all for her to not kill the badguy and they torture you by making you play the bad guy
Игра говно , чёртовые лгбт , заебаои феменистки-лесбиянки-нигеры-трансгендары. В пизду эту игру , в сравнение с первой игрой не идёт , эта игра полное дёрьмо.
Я считаю, что разработчики меня обманули!! Игра в самом начале бессовестно лешила меня интереса наблюдать за персонажами. Это надо быть совсем идиотом так поступить с игроками!! 5 баллов игре ставлю только из уважения к дизайнерам.Смотря на трейлер игры - все должно было быть иначе! Это примерно тоже самое - когда в фильме Бетмен - бетмена там нету!
This game (despite all the hate) is the best game I've ever played. The stunning graphics, action combat and the best story ever told in video games. I don't know why Ellie goes on a killing rampage because my bigger brother didn't let me to watch the first 2 hours of the game but it seems great and fun!!! Still haven't finished the game, I'm on a 6th hour right now. Can't wait to see how the relations between Ellie and Joel will develop
A huge fan of the first instalment and waited 8 years for this game, but to only feel like i did when the credits rolled in game of thrones S8 & disney Starwars trilogy. I will go straight to the point in this review: The good: -graphics (next gen graphics, lot of work has been put into this game). -Sound and music is again on point like in the first game giving you the immersion of being in a apocalyptic world. The bad: - Story: The obvious is the storytelling that doesn't compare to the first game, i do understand it is a bold move by Neil but having social agenda and shoving such themes to gamers not only break the immersion/realism of the flow of the story but also creates unnatural events which i can only say to subvert expectation of those who play it. Of course i won't spoil, but the game tries to pull a red wedding moment without any build up and utimately just reminds me of the the 'iron fleet' plot hole in Game of thrones S8. - Characters: The game forces a femenism agenda that utimately fails to portray them as strong and independent characters (the game seems to insult more than portray femenism in a positive manner). I know anita sarkeesian took some sort of contribution or influence on druckman in writing some of these characters, and it shows with all female characters taking all the glory and moments that are not earned while the men are seen as 'bigots'. Now there are heaps of games and movies out there that do illustrate the natural earned independent female role for example THE LAST OF US PART 1. All characters have flaws, fears and weaknesses which most of these notions must be overcomed in order to develop throughout the game and thus creates a realistic and likeable characters. This game however provides you characters with titles and assume that will be enough for you to either symphathise or like these characters such as 'pregnant lady going to the frontline', 'bastard child that is on roids' & 'transgender daughter living in a viking esque society'. These characters could have been explored more in dept and had a potential to build a connection between the player with these characters but the writer just chose to list and shove as many social agenda message as possible. Worst part is all characters we know in the first game are completely written off with actions and dialogue that do not make any sense with their personalities such as Tommy for example. Again this can be compared with the poor writing in GOT S8 with daenerys who spent 7 seasons building up trust with the people and hopefully applying the same method in westeros... and we know how that went. Gameplay: The game is essentially the same as part 1 with only a few new infected class, an ability to prone/jump and human AI having different weapons according to what society they belong to. There are less puzzles than the first game such as the rope and rubbish bin to get you to places which is a disapointment. As a linear game it's expected from you to get from point A-B, would of been cool if they could introduce different branches that could provide different experiences to players and would increase the replayability. Overall as a standalone game it is a 5/10 and a wait for a massive sale (85%-90% OFF) as there are moments in this game that you can get enjoyment out of. However my score is a 1/10 for many reasons that is more related to the developer (Naughty Dog) and the director (Neil Druckman). Reason for the main score: 1.A disgusting amount of cencorship to many honest critics and people who voice their concerns with the game (not able to take constructive critisim? not going to last long in a capitalistic society mate). 2.Bullying reviewers and journalist who either mention any negativity of the game or it's development (which moves to my next point). 3. Treatment of their staff: force to overwork their staff and have the audacity to hold off their checks after their contract has been fulfilled unless they fill an agreement form to not speak of how they are treated while employed at Naughty Dog. I know 'crunch' culture is a thing, but there is a fine line when you stripped not only their freedom at work but also their voice. 4. Using bots/fans/followers to write negative reviews on well made games such as Ghost of Tsushima. A really coward and desperate method in trying to increase your rating for PS4 exclusive. Overall i have lost faith in Naughty dog and Neil Druckman and my only last sentence sums up what they have become. "A shamful display"- Shogun 2
Highly recommend this masterpiece roller coaster. I just started playing these games. I played through part 2 first and then part 1. Play in whatever order but be ready to question your feelings, emotions, beliefs and morals. Some say they hate the story, but this is better then a movie it’s not supposed to be something you agree with the whole time. It’s extremely controversial and the developers really want to F*** with you. You’re not supposed to agree with everything and sometimes it will make you truly be dumbfounded with what you think is right and wrong. I truly love the story because it will make you happy, hopeful, sad, and angry. If you’re someone who’s looking for a great story that isn’t meant to be what you expect, this is it. Also the gameplay is amazing and if you like assassins creed or Batman Arkham series this is a great one. Graphics are top of the line best I’ve seen. This game is not for the light hearted.
One of the best games of this era. i am not gonna say anything specific but if you liked the first one then this is a MUST! I respect the decision of Naughty Dog giving it a more cinematic look with a tough plot! Play it before you judge it.
Horrible storyline. One of the main characters didn't had to go out that way. Too much time playing as Abbey. Sad about not ever to see the Taylor to ever play again. John wick does not approve.


Funny that somehow, this is the most user reviewed game to date, despite the completion trophies on the ps4 showing that just over 10% of players have actually finished this game at present. Too many people reviewing this game without even playing it, all because some leaked footage goes against their political views.
A complete waste of time of a game that completely betrays all of the moral ambiguity of the first game in favor of a poorly made revenge story that doesn't even follow through on the final goal. with Gameplay that barely even changes anything from a 7 year old game, and you have a game that didn't need to be made. And to the people and bots that are trying to boost the user score up, you are just as pathetic as the bots that don't have anything to say in the negatives, either.
The gameplay, graphics, environment and cinematics were great not gonna lie but the story was kinda bad it doesn't even stand near the first game if i were the producer i would put more efforts in the story than graphics. Neil druckmann really took the amazing title to the bottom with him.

The game from beginning to end is simply beyond anything I’ve ever played. The story was not what I expected and I’m glad for that. From wanting to take my revenge for what a character has done to me to then switching and yet again take my revenge against the character I had played 10 hours ago. It takes risk and massive guts to try and switch my perspective and opinions and they succeeded wildly. The game really has to be played to be able to understand and appreciate what it’s doing.
This game is a disrespect to the character that you learn to care for in the first TLoU . They turn joel into a spineless Char . The gameplay is weak and repetitive and plot of the story is weak and distasteful . Save your money from this trashy game .
Ridiculous story. Unreasonable actions from characters. Great disappointment for anyone who loves part 1. Make you feel so uncomfortable during play. Do not recommend at all.

First of all: awesome grafics and overall well done game I liked the story and the fact that Naughty Dog was brave enough to bring so strong feelings in both (positive and negative) directions into this game, I guess this is the point much people dislike, but for me this is the part that makes the game stand out
Amazing game dont listen to all these people bombing the rating that haven't even played the game! Gameplay is top notch, graphics are stunning! If you understand the world there in and the story its a work of art! Masterpiece
Graphics? Awesome.. gameplay? Was fine as well. Story was very poor and this is the major factor in gaming. Also can they stop pushing agendas in gaming? This should be plain and fun, dont force things on people. Highly dossapointed.

The last of us part 2 is a beautiful and highly detailed world, with grueling combat and amazing voice acting. It starts off well but around half way through, I felt it starting to drag. The pacing is some of the worst I’ve seen in a Naughty Dog game, and while the acting was excellent, the dialogue was out of place and character. Many of the new characters didn’t have much impact nor was I able to relate to them. The gameplay and combat begin to become highly repetitive to the point I felt I had to complete the game as fast as possible. A solid game overall, but fails to live up to its predecessor.

Shame on you Naughty Dog for ruining your franchise with this BS identity politics, awful story and characters, bending the knee for 0.1% of the populus who support this garbage.
A technical masterpiece, but story negates all good in this game. It was falsely marketed to hide the fact the story is not about Joel and Ellie, but a horrible torture porn revenge plot. Our old beloved characters are made into villans and brutally discarded along the way. The main theme of the game is "revenge is bad" but Abby gets her revenge and lives happily ever after? I regret buying this piece of **** game.
Strong graphics, mediocre gameplay, horrendous story arc with a sprinkle of agenda driven rubbish. Do not buy.
Gráficos bonitos y trabajados, historia mal escrita y apresurada, al contrario que su gameplay que es lento y monótono, constantemente intenta imponerte valores de tolerancia mientras su protagonista demuestra un desprecio constante hacia la vida humana y desechan los valores de familia, agradecimiento y y respeto hacia los padres.
How do you mess up such a beloved franchise with a story and writing THIS bad. This game does not exist in my eyes, just play the first one, skip out on this joke of a game.
Disappointing. The game is boring, the pace of the game is not working for me. The SWJ here is extremely annoying.
The story is all over the place, not original and the new characters are shallow. The trailers lied to the players, giving an idea Joel would still be alive, shame on the game company for doing that. The game showed flashbacks which in a better light, telling the story of the first game in a total different way. The game has some strange things happening, like an eight month pregant going to battlefield and squeezing her belly on the floor. The game is sad and depressing which could work but releasing this type of game during an actual pandemic is really unfortunate and bad timing. I didn't care when/how Joel died and what happened with the story, it was the points above who made me dislike the game
Don"t really hate the game, but the ending doesnt really make it for me. Plus I absolutely hate the fact that you have to play as Abby the whole second half of the game. I just gonna pretend Abby gets Infected by biting Ellie. No problem with Ellie being lesbian because we knew it since the Left Behind DLC. I was scared how they gonna introduce the trans character, but it actually made sense and it didnt felt forced what so ever. The reason why i give it 3/10 is the fact that the game spits in the face of the first game's characters. the part 2 the really broke my heart how unenjoyable was the second half of the game

Why naughty dog? Why? So you took all the care and love you put into the first game, and switched it for a stupid plot full of hate and bleakness. BS revenge story with no pay offs in the end.
Didnt like the Story. Didnt like the gameplay. Liked grafics and animations. Liked Sounds. Liked the game the first half, but than i played only for the cliffhanger, was bored and had no fun. Storywise and gameplay wise not interessted
I think the game unfortunately highlights the worst in people, not because of the game itself but because of bigoted responses. Reading some responses including on Google, It left me almost in tears to think how much hate is out there. The game is a 10. Thanks naughty dog
If this game revolved around different characters in a different world it would be art, but it doesn’t and it’s not. The false advertising used to sell this game is morally corrupt, enticing you to buy a product which is completely different to how it’s advertised. After seven years of waiting for a follow up to the best game of all time, the level of disappointment i feel for the treatment of the characters and the quality of the story is soul crushing. The gameplay itself and graphics are fantastic, but it is peppered with resent as the game drags you through a story that will make you wish the ending of Joel and Ellie had simply been left to your imagination.
I will try to be short. All the bad reviews this game is getting is 100% because of emotionally retarded people that got too attached to last of us 1 and hate different type of storys. Dude get over it, you didnt get what you wanted but its definately a masterpiece just as the first one. The story is well told , not sure if I can say that better than the first one, it's a good story about different things. The gameplay is amazing and better than the 1st one. Everything is just soo well made it makes you feel you are playing a movie.
Sensacional... Emocionante.. difícil conseguir parar de jogar... Viciante.. melhor jogo que já joguei. Quem realmente jogar vai ser maravilhado por um mundo detalhado e hostil com profundidade na história que te faz sorrir e chorar em diversas ocasiões durante a gameplay.
Finished in 22h50 minutes. One of the worst game I ever played, the most awful story I ever saw at the most ridiculous ending of my entire life. This game is a shame.
It has good graphics gameplay was OK Hated Joel dying that way hate abby 100% Hate the ending I don't see them making a last of us 3
I was hesitant on buying this because of what I heard from leaks, though I did my best to avoid them. So at the last minute I decided I’d get it and make my own decision. And wow, I honestly wish I could get my money back. Not only is the story awful, but I could care less about the characters. I literally had no feelings towards any of them besides our already established ones. This felt like an interactive movie. You can watch all the cutscenes online and you’ll basically miss nothing. It felt like the actual ‘gameplay’ was walking from point A to B and some combat sprinkled in. I grew so tired of the stealth, the AI is easily manipulated, I was sick of seeing the same neck stab/break animation depending on who you’re playing, I started to go into the combat guns blazing. When I did that I was able to clear out the area so quickly. On top of that, you'll get an audio prompt that everyone is dead in the area like “I think that’s all of them.” Meaning, nothing is going to surprise you now and you’re free to collect your resources and now you’re off for the next 30-60 minutes of walking or cutscenes. Difficulty should not have to be inflated to make the actual gameplay/combat just feel longer. And it’s not like the combat is much different than it was 7 years ago, it’s actually easier especially since Ellie has her endless knife and Clickers are totally pathetic now. This game in essence is a QTE Movie/Walking Sim. Just watch the cutscenes online and you’ll pretty much miss out on nothing. There’s nothing here in this game that hasn’t been seen before or done better.

This is a spoiler free review. 2 is a generous rating in my opinion because after all this is a story driven ONLY game and in my mind it failed. I can’t rate ND games like any other games where i will try to isolate graphics, story and gameplay because ND is a linear story driven game so no matter how it looks which is absolutely awesome or how enjoyable the gameplay is which is fine it, but in the end it’s all about the story and this story unlike any other game from ND is bad, lazy without any character building. Some events took place too fast it destroyed any chance to sympathize with certain characters. Some decisions was taken by every character in the game that doesn’t make sense and just felt like the writer couldn’t write anything creative after the 17 minute point. In a game focused on the story of such characters and the development of said characters I can’t get why the writers decide to take this course. The game is a slap in the face of every naughty dog fan, instead of giving us an understandable meaningful well written story, they just gave us a cliché revenge is bad story and contradict themselves by saying bad deeds goes undone while claiming in a post apocalyptic world there is no justice.
I know a lot of people don't really enjoy the game, personally I had a blast with it. I don't think it's amazing story wise but the gameplay was really fun imo! I'd say check it out for yourself if you're up for it.

The last of us part II is a bad game it does not do ellie or joel justice. The gameplay is improved but the story goes in the wrong direction.

Like for gameplay, 2 points maybe deservedly, but I want play Elly, Tommy or Joel but not this person which appears in second half, this is not interested - minus 2 points. This just like fanfic 12 y.o. girl, nothing linked with last of us(2013), but this really funny I often laughing, nice rofl
Um dos jogos mais lindos que já joguei, uma experiência única... Só tive esse tipo de experiência com Shadow of the Colossus, de admiração gráfica, mecânica e o jeito que a história é levada, um jogo perfeito

And with this one game, big name journalists (IGN, Polygon, VG24/7, Eurogamer etc) if their reputations in recent years weren't already badly damaged and reduced to the court jesters of gaming journalism, their fate is sealed by a once loved franchise. How did it all go so badly wrong for The Last Of Us 2? Visuals: one of the few redeeming features, the visuals are very good, coupled with sound effects, the animations make killing enemies and such hold more weight than before. Motion capture of faces and lip sync are no issue, all done well as is the voice acting. Sound effects: Again not where the game faulters, the music; often ambient or acoustic is typical of apocalyptic narratives nowadays, for instance The walking dead series. Voice acting is mostly believable, and weapons etc haven't been lazily done. Gameplay: this is where things start to get a tad shaky, the gameplay is reminiscent of the first game a decade or more ago, it's not fast paced action, there's different pacing mixed between some exploration and scantily clad puzzle solving that's weaker and more basic than the first game. Mostly linear sections where you're encouraged to use stealth or distraction to move past or take down enemies. The formula though ok is a bit dated even with all the nice visuals and animations. Storyline: And this is where it all falls to pieces for different reasons. Firstly, what was the first game? An endearing father/daughter like relationship through a dark and hopeless world, with moments of humour or light shone in from Ellie and the few loveable characters. No agenda, no desperation to gain brownie points from certain social activists or groups. Just a story anyone can get behind and enjoy. What has this game done? It's for the most part distanced itself from that winning formula, no attempt to build upon or improve it, one of the most beloved of two characters feels the ramifications of this. The new characters aren't loveable and interesting this time around. The storyline boils down to a cheap soap opera, and the awful direction it goes, the cringe that befalls it, the destruction of a lovely chemistry between two great characters that people simply wanted to see built upon. It's all gone to pave the way for a social justice agenda, for the gain of brownie points, for multiple gay but somehow also bi characters with a bonus diversity character. And it's a colossal disaster. Sarkeesian being involved along with the questionable new director (Druckmann) were a big red flag, all but confirmed by various leaks and studio employees apparently being removed for questioning the bizarre story direction. There's also a distasteful and appalling scene I won't allude to for spoilers sake that appears to involve Druckmann (the game's now director) himself, or a very bizarre likeness to them; as placed within the game as a character. This scene also highlights Sony's appalling hypocrisy on censorship of more innocent nude in other titles, not even sex scenes like this. Then before the review embargo, 10/10 from already questionable journalists, with the knowledge Sony strictly prohibited much of the game being reviewed; namely the parts that players were worried about. But it turns out most of this was all true, and the game does have pretty awful, agenda driven story, that tries to hide behind the guise of a cheap revenge flick porn. The original game managed to make Ellie's sexuality feel very natural, no LED neon arrows above it, and not a main feature of the story and game, just purely natural design choice. This game manages to make every LGBTQ/SJW topic feel as fake and forced for brownie points and pandering, as Katie Prices chest. And it really detracts from immersion, throw in the poor storyline, shallow characters and somewhat dated mechanics, and you have real heavy fall from grace. There isn't even and choice given at key moments, you're forced to watch it painfully unfurl. The best option is to keep the memory of the first game and leave it there, don't soil it (and soiled it will certainly be) by playing this disappointment of the this gen of gaming. Verdict: Don't let this £50 disappointment destroy the great memory of the last of us 1, keep it's agenda addled and paultry story telling away from you, and maybe Naughty Dog, developers and journalists will realize this same formula of forcing unnatural elements into games for agenda's sake, will simply destroy a company.
You people are crazy to rate this game a ahitty score. All you people want things in the game to end your way **** off! This **** is real and there is no Cinderella ending in a post apocolypse world. Gtfo

One of the best game of the decay It is a Masterpiece The ultra high guality gameplay Ausome soundtrack Best looking game The most relistic graphics a begining of the next gen
Great gameplay bad story political statement feminist agenda anti-father figure. Good game but very very bad sequel. Advice for Naughty Dog stay away from politics focus on gaming!



They have ruined such a great duo of characters for shock value and a revenge story that's daft and unsatisfied, forced a character that we knew not in the previous game and expected us to like her and see Ellie as a villain The did my Boy Joel in dirty and disrespect him. Such a shame as the first game is very near to me. I do not recommend buying it , if you see it in a few month as a second hand below 20euro then go ahead ither wise not worth it


I have never played a game where you (the player) is so disconnected from the main character. This game breaks alle of Naughty Dogs previous styles and storytelling formulas, unfortunately not in a positive way. It still contains ND'd "narrow corridors" both from a gameplay and a storytelling perspective. However, while this worked in the Uncharted games and TLOU I, since you could understand the characters actions, it does not work in TLOU II, since the actions of the main characters and beyond any reason, that the player is heavily disconnected from the story. Maybe the writers tried to be to clever, since it does not work very well. The whole experience is very frustrating since you (as the player) have no options to interact with the story (as per ND's tradition). Every sane and intelligent person would have chosen to act differently than the characters of TLOU II in various instances.
"A Flawed Masterpiece" This is a very hard review to write - there are parts of the story I adored beyond words, and there are parts that I hated to the point of very nearly putting down my controller and walking away. And yet... I'm so very glad I never did. Without spoiling anything, it's safe to say that there were some pretty extreme narrative risks taken in this production. Even having reached the end, it left me not satisfied, not happy - but rather, sad, confused, empty. I spent days pouring over the experience, trying to untangle the mess of emotions I was feeling (yes, still, days later) - and over time grew to accept, then grudgingly admire, then downright cherish the experience I've just played (lived) through. It's not a 10/10. There are some frustrating bits even outside of narrative, and while I did enjoy the story overall, I can't help but think that something could've been done to pace it better. And good grief I would've killed for an actual choice towards the very end... But this is largely nitpicking. Final verdict: I don't regret a single dollar, nor a single hour, I've spent on this game. It made me feel like **** but only because it wanted me to - never unintentionally. It's certainly a game that will challenge you not so much as a player, but as a human - and I while I appreciate that, not everyone will. Yet in my eyes, the biggest testimony to its achievement is the hole it's left behind. What other game could possibly measure up at this point?
All style, no substance. The idea of violence being a viscious circle is handled really poorly, and isn't exactly new. It conveys a middle school level of philosophy that is as shallow as it's narrative.
No MP? I am very sorry but I am so disappointed in this Story. Technically game is okay and the gameplay is just like the first one but the story is a joke. I am sad that I bought this game and we had to wait so long for this worthless game.
I didn’t see any spoilers for this game, I played it on June 19th and finished it on the 22nd. If I had rated the game then I probably would have given in a 7 or 8 but after thinking about it a lot more, reading various people’s opinions and gaining clarification on some points I would now comfortably give this game a 10. It tells a heartbreaking, depressing story with a lot of hard to watch moments, but I simply can’t stop thinking about it, about right and wrong and about where the characters will go next. I’m not surprised so many people hate it as it makes a lot of bold decisions, some of which I don’t agree with, but ND didn’t make a game to pander to their fans, they made a game that would challenge them and hurt them, in the best possible way. Also the ending is not as depressing as you think, read some of the theories about it, I think people will be happy with the note it leaves on.

Gave myself a good chance to try and enjoy myself when playing this game. Played through twice and still just can't get into the story and the new characters. Game looks great, but the story just sucks.

So we all know Naughty Dog are a master class at Graphics and Animation. BUT.. TLOU2 completely ignores its central plot about a fungal virus, what would of been an interesting talking piece in midst of a real life virus pandemic is now put aside in favor of character backstories and LESBIUNSSSS. There are attempts to make some kind of chemistry between these new characters but it almost always falls flat. I'm confused how even a sex/kiss scene fail to sell a relationship between them. Making a character gay, non-stereotype, big-nosed, ethnic, or a tomboy does not by default make them interesting. Some segments from Uncharted wouldn't be engaging if not for the banter between Nathan and Sully. This is relevant as a whole lot of TLOU2 are padded stealth sections that don't have the same kind of interaction to entertain you. The only genuine character relationship is put to an end early on with no worthwhile replacement. This is so evident by the few flashback segments with Joel/Ellie which make a museum walking simulator fun. Naughty Dog seem to have place its bets on the gameplay and new characters for the majority of TLOU2 and these are definitely not their strong suit.
Um jogo incrível nunca vi um jogo tão incrível assim as coisas que ele passa para nós é fantástico pena que esse jogo foi alvo de ódio pelas as pessoas que gosta de Xbox ele planejaram fazer isso dar nota negativas no jogo eu tenho conversa com um dele falando que eles estavam criando conta no metacritic pra dar nota zero no tlou 2 mas é um belo jogo minha mãe kkk pensou que fosse filme

This game has several fundamental issues. While it’s visually stunning, the gameplay feels contrived from the original with little innovation, and feels exhausting over the 30 hour campaign as the exact same enemy varieties and attack techniques are utilised. In terms of the story, the game disregards its USP, the Joel/Ellie dynamic, as well as the inspiring themes of the original in favour of a grim revenge plot. As such it lacks the emotionally compelling relational dynamics that made the first game so memorable. A key death is handled in a very convenient, random, degrading manner making it feel more like shock for the sake of shock than a well written plot point. Abbys character is handled poorly as the writing tries so hard to make you empathise with her but never truly does, while the ending feels utterly pointless, the moral lesson being, it’s okay to torture lots of random innocent people but avenging a loved one is bad! This would be quite like return of the Jedi if darth vader got killed by a random Jedi’s niece instead of us seeing the Luke /Vader climax ( Joel/Ellie’s turbulent relationship after she learns the truth being the equivocal plot point we missed out on). In trying to subvert expectations it creates a boring and soulless plot and it’s a real shame because the first remains amongst the most grim but inspiring stories of all time. Rest in peace!
Просто невероятное техническое исполнение, и потрясающе эмоциональная история!


worst game of all time. worst game of all time. worst game of all time. worst game of all time. worst game of all time........
Similar to how modern mainstream media has devolved into a circlejerk of unlikable journalists discussing topics that no one cares about or asked for, gaming journalism also has also become completely irrelevant to actual gamers. TLOU2's story and characters are absolutely terrible and you will not enjoy this game if you have half a brain. It has good reviews because modern gaming critics have absolutely no idea what gamers actually enjoy or want.
After completing the game I can only say that this new title of ND does not deserve the criticism that it is having, people are quite useless and do not understand the story from what I see. For me it takes 10 in everything. Great game.
All the negative feedback made me really interested in this game. It cant be THAT bad can it? Turns out, yes, it CAN be THAT bad. They have put a lot of work into this game. It really shows they wanted it to be great. But every single step of the way just goes in the wrong direction. It is no redemption story, because the story clearly shows there is no redemption to be had. There is no revenge, because well... Ellie got old and tired when she once again remembered Joel trolling her with the guitar. --- The entire game is just a bleak, horrible, depressing, stressful and obnoxious to go through. It feels like punishment playing the game. Those bloody kills you so much used to love? Well, you will start turning away from the screen and shutting the game of because the story, the setting, the tone, the motivations, the constant stream of stupid decisions... EVERYTHING makes you want to shut the game OFF.
이 게임은 디 오더 1886과 매우 유사합니다. 그래픽은 매우 대단하지만 스토리는 한숨밖에 안나옵니다. 전투 방식도 전작과 비교해서 크게 달라진게 없다는 점이 아쉽습니다.
Horrible game horrible. I really liked the first one. But not so much for the game play. It's one of those games where you really liked the characters and the story. So in the second one they messed up the characters, made the story trash, and kept the same sub par gameplay. I just thought the game was ok at best
The most important thing about this game is the story, and it is terrible, also the script, the plot and the end is very bad and this is not a The last of us, The landscapes and graphics are good
Just why, you easily have one of the best ps3 games for that whole generation and then this no one wanted to lose an iconic character like that and then be forced to play that one certain character you forced us to be BAD DOG naughty dog
Wow just wow you **** over at naughty dog worked on this for four years and this is the best story you could come up with? Un **** believable thanks for ruining the first game which was by far my favorite game ever .. super duper disappointed
I loved the first game and the DLC and I think it included people of many different backgrounds, ethnicities and sexual orientations in a very good way that added value to the story. But the main reason why I loved and still do love the game, was because of the interactions between Ellie and Joel. How Joel found in his heart to love again despite what other people did to his daughter and how Ellie found a person whom she could trust to always be there for her. I never found any love for the fireflies as they wanted to kill a child for a vaccine that was not even guaranteed to work, and how the hell would they even deliver said vaccine or produce it in a post apocalyptic world? Anyway, the second game is beautiful beyond belief and I am certain it was made for the ps5 first and foremost and that we will see the true magnificent visuals when that console arrives. But stunning visuals only do so much and even if the game succeeds with representation and also have some really intense action scenes, the story is boring and really not even close to the first game at all. The story is a **** and I am disappointed and I never could have dreamed that the story would be so bad. Yes, the story is dark and gritty but that is also more or less all it is, there are no light to search for when the one is in the darkness. The ending is a catastrophe and I am certain most people will not be happy or even content with it. I will be honest as I do not think this game is a zero nor is it a ten. People giving the game a zero are but hurt little spoiled brats and people giving it a ten are virtue signaling SJWs. I have nothing against any ethnicity, sexual orientation or religion and the game is not bad because of representation, it is bad despite of representation. I would give it a 5 out of 10 because it is a gorgeous looking game with gameplay that is ok but not as good as one would expect after such a long time between the first game and this game. The story is literally trash and seems to been have written by someone that is both blind and deaf when it comes to have a feeling for the soul that was present in the first game. Do not buy if you loved the first game for the story, buy it if you really love the gameplay from the first and would love to kill hundreds of people and mushroom-people.
They kill joel! This is not TLOU2! WTF. 7 years of waiting. For the next elly and joel adventure. And this is wht we get?? Super disappointed .
O jogo me fez sentir desgosto ao jogar com a Abby, a mesma que matou o amado Joel, e também, forçação de barra com um enredo mais preocupado com militância que com o consumidor, minha nota é um boicote
After 7 years we get this: a convoluted story that needs to push the plot, no matter what. Lovely graphic, but this kind of game lives out of the story section. Irredeemable.


I see many people spamming a 0 for this game. This game was develop beatifully (graphics) with details and I feel like people that worked on it put their best to look good. Unfortunately the main reasons why I didn't enjoy this game are: 1- complete false advertising on representation of the game, they make ubelieve that joe was going to be an imñortant character during, at least, a big portion of the game. 2- i don't see a game here, just an interactive movie with a very noticeaboe agenda to cover Very dissatisfied with the game and the corporation
Graphically it looks nice, gameplay is improved but the story is completely awful and wasted $70 on this garbage game. The fact that you Kill off Joel in the first 2hrs of the game it has made me not wanting to play the game no more and i have deleted the game.
It pains me to say it but this game is a complete disappointment. How can a game that has some of the best graphics and sound design together with stellar voice acting disappoint? Story ND told us this story would be about revenge, it wanted us to question our beliefs. It tries very hard to set itself up as meaningful and sophisticated. But it is not, it is a basic revenge story. It manipulates emotion by going for what the players will hate, not by delivering an actual, good narrative. - Killing a fan favorite early - Making the other fan favorite, and main character of the game, unrecognizable - Forcing the player to play with the antagonist for half of the game in hopes for them to see the other side - Rewriting the history of The Last of Us 1 to make the beloved characters look like villains. - Refusing the player closure at the end, essentially making the whole game and complete deconstruction of the characters they love pointless. This is not a deep story. This is a talentless team of writers fumbling a revenge story by basing it completely on destroying what fans of The Last of Us 1 loved. This, in combination with outside factors like shameless copyright striking, very dubious critics scores, and straight up false marketing make this a 6, maybe 7, out of ten game when viewed on its merits alone. But since it also damages the original game with retconning events and rewriting character traits as the plot of the new game requires the final score must be lower.
Horrible story and for a game that is story driven it makes for a horrible game written by a egomaniac writer. Also having false advertising in your marketing and then saying that is to 'conceal the story as much as possible' is just insulting your consumers intelligence. It shows how much you think of us, especially when you're spoofeeding the concept of 'hur dur revenge is bad'. Everyone **** knows that and we're not the sociopats you think we are!
Terrible story. Sorry to see the developer ruin one of their best franchises. The only thing that people love about the first game was the story, and here they missed it big time. So the result is a bad game that you may still play but won't enjoy it nor that you will ever remember the story or characters. Nevertheless amazing graphics that you’ll appreciate.
What can I say that has not already been said. After the amazing TLOU we get something that technically amazing - graphics and gameplay (although very samey and more noticeable on 2nd play through) but the Story is the biggest let down. Pacing and shock surprises (which are cheap and easy). Dialogue is poor and story writing is garbage and very underwhelming and generic. I can play TLOU over and over again... TLOUP2 I struggled 2nd time. Once I got the platinum I uninstalled the game and now enjoying host of Tsushima.
Em algum lugar dessa bagunça havia potencial para uma grande história, mas infelizmente ela é atolada por tramas secundárias desnecessárias e escolhas desconcertantes de personagens. Infelizmente, os gráficos não são suficientes para salvar este jogo por si só. Para um jogo de sequela, em vez de construir no primeiro, parece querer apenas derrubar tudo. Os gráficos e a atenção aos detalhes são algo a admirar, mas para um jogo baseado em histórias que se concentra mais em fazer o jogador se sentir infeliz, esse jogo falha espetacularmente.
i just wanted kill who kills joel why noughty dog whhy? i was waiting this game for years. but still good game for not fans



This is Amazing experience and no it's not a game u want to play to relax or have fun with. But if u just wanted to play more of Ellie and Joel go play the last of us remastered. It is it's own game and is one of the best interactive media of the generation

The game looks amazing, improving on even the last of us remastered and looks better than Naughty Dog's uncharted 4. The game play is more refined but does not excite in anyway as it is pretty much same as the last game. The story was brilliant in the last game but something has gone horribly wrong for this sequel, apart from shoe horning politics into this once loved franchise. The game not only kills off a beloved character but in the manner it was done makes you question if the sequel was really made by the same company as the first game. Joel the main character in the first game, is a person that hardly trusts anyone in the first game but in the second game he trusts the character that ends up killing him so easily, completely out of character. Not only that but you are forced to play this character right after she kills Joel and with objective to kill the other main character from first game and to make things worse the game tries to make you like her by implying she is not really a bad person which totally does not work. The game also has many plot holes as a result of such terrible writing and feels so rushed. Well done naughty dog for ruining the franchise and your fans trust.
Its very bad.Joel can't be killed that way, because in the first part he comes as very careful and smart person.It feels like developers hate white straight men.I want to forget the part ii.Terrible.Abby looks like puzzle of different people.Oops she really is
Gosh - what a missed opportunity. The first game was so memorable. Probably a 10/10 overall, but certainly on its story, atmosphere, game play. They really could have taken it to new heights in TLOU2. Unfortunately - and for a reason I must not understand - it seems they deliberately wanted a car crash in this sequel. There are some exceptional executions in this. The graphics and animation are first class and set a new benchmark. The gameplay, though same as previous, has some upgrades and is more fluid than before. The environments are very beautiful, though a bit same-same throughout the game. Where this one goes off a cliff - and the reason we judge it so harshly - is that the execution of the narrative (rather than the narrative itself) is jarring to the point of offensive when you hold it next to the superbly executed original. Many people are angry at WHAT happens. I'm fine with what happens. It's a bit like the comic of The Walking Dead or the book The Road... its a bad place and can be brutal. How it was put together was like a case of bad directing, to the point that it broke the immersion and made the journey to the end of the game more like a slog, not a desire to see what happens. And the ending, without giving anything away, is just plain bad and has you feeling empty wondering what was this all for - what a waste of time and lives. It's worse BECAUSE of the brilliance of the first. Similar to how The Godfather Part 3 was in part judged on how Part 1 & 2 were so fantastic. Some rearrangements on the play out of the story, some changes to the way characters seem to forget who they were in the first one, and perhaps even a toning down of the at-times grotesque violence (how showing the slaying of a pregnant woman is required or acceptable really is beyond me), and this would be a worthwhile successor. As it stands, it does the franchise a dis-service, and I will only watch for a third installment with half interest... I no longer really care about what happens in TLOU world.
The Last of Us Part 2 é uma Obra Prima, Uma História Adulta, Violenta, Pesada, que você sempre fica querendo saber o que vem depois, não irei entrar no mérito de gráfico, gameplay e trilha sonora, pois é unanimidade que é melhor e mais caprichado que o Primeiro game. Um Forte Concorrente ao Jogo do Ano de 2020(E vou torcer pra esse game)

To be honest I never played game like this. The story twist just blow me away. I don't even talk about graphics and small details. DO NOT PAY ATTENTION TO BAD REVIEWS BUY THIS GAME AND YOU WON'T REGRET IT!!! THE MOST PART OF REVIEWERS WHO GAVE 0 DIDN'T EVEN PLAY THIS GAME. THAT IS EMBARRASSING.
I think it's obvious by now that this game is not for everyone. For me, I think Naughty Dog knocked it out of the park yet again. First of all the graphics, the big set pieces and acting in the game are phenomenal, no one can deny it. I really enjoy the gameplay too (some people get burned out by it but that's what happens when you play like 17 hours at a time) the visceral combat is fantastic. But what I am really impressed by is the bold direction they took with the story and the way they structured it. By the end of the game I really grew fond of Abby even though she killed Joel, one of the most beloved video game characters. And even though Ellie's story breaks my heart because I care about her so much that's what I signed up for when I play a game like this. This is a bleak world and no other games leave me devastated by the end like The Last of Us does to the point I don't feel like playing anything else for a while. I don't know how people were expecting for ND to just make an exact copy to the first game, that was neved going to happen. Also Ellie is not that innocent girl anymore, deal with it, this is a perfect evolution of her story. Thank you Sony for continuing to give us these experiences , the best in entertainment. And to the people who work for this website, please make it a thing to verify the purchase when giving a score for a game because we get thousands of people who've never played the game
who write the script? Story 0/10 - stupid Once you’ve finished it it literally has been for nothing! SAVE YOUR MONEY
Lo malo Las mecánicas del juego no son muy diferentes a las de la primera entrega, y la Inteligencia artificial de los enemigos deja mucho que desear, haciéndolos totalmente predecibles y repetitivos, el sonido está en general esta mal implementado, suele confundir la verdadera distancia de los enemigos, la historia está pésimamente desarrollada, y tienes muy poca libertad de desicion en el juego, el final se vuelve prefmdecible y jugar con Abby se hace insoportable, y no es que sea un mal personaje, pero la forma en que la historia la presenta dejan cero ganas de empató ar con ella, las motivaciones de Abby y el enfado de Ellie con Joel dan la sensación de tirar por la borda todo el TLOU 1, y eso quinta las ganas de volver a jugar y para que hablar de lo poco satisfactorio y la nula recompensa que se siente al terminarlo Lo bueno Increíbles gráficos, animaciones muy bien logradas, buena banda Sonora, y creo que lo mejor es el gore que ofrece el juego más que muchas otras entregas pero más allá de eso nada mas Mejor parte del juego, el flash back de Ellie con Joel en el parquede dinosaurios, si bien es poco lo que se juega en esta parte, sin duda esperábamos muchas más interacciones con esta dupla.... Una lastima El juego se puede disfrutar la primera vez, pero creo que todos los factores ya mencionados hacen que su rejugabilidad sea aburrida, me quedo con el TLOU 1
> Hay una gran involución en el aspecto narrativo al compararlo con el primer juego. > Se notó la urgencia por deshacerse del protagonista anterior y engañar a los jugadores con el marketing fue bajo. > El gameplay innovó un poco y es más fluido. > La tensión amorosa entre Owen y Abby facilmente podia omitirse y no afectaba en nada. > Lo más sobresaliente son los gráficos, pero eso no es todo lo que importa en un juego
Most of the masterpieces gain public recognition after a long time. This game is one of them. Overall it's fantastic, deep and heavyweight. So much to think about after the final scene. Just play it. This game and its story is ahead of its time.

Whoever is putting 0/10 for this deserves a slap to the head. Keep the politics and BS out of this. There’s a reason obvisouly to anyone with a brain that it’s a 95 metacritic score, one of the best games ever made. To put 0/10 because your mad that Joel died is just embarrassing. It’s the best game of the ps4s generation and I’m in awe at how good it is. GOTY
Pros:Great graphics, amazing world gen, and new sense of verticality. The flashbacks were exceptionally well wrote. Cons: i waited nearly a decade to watch my favourite character get clubbed to death, abby is an unwanted 10+ hour forced sidequest, the use of extremely shallow and conceited logic to invoke emotion is completely unnecessary. Etc Essentially if you cut abby out of the story and rewrote how Joel dies you could have an amazing game set up to explore the continued relationship made in the last game, and topped it off with the emotional death of a beloved character in a honourable and heroic fashion. Instead, you get a poorly written revenge story that berates the player for doing things that they dont have any choice in, finishing with the worst ending to any game ive ever played. But hey, blowing a fan favourite character's kneecap off with a shotgun and then clubbing him to death is totally the thing players waited for. And that 10+ hour forced sidequest with abby was definitely what fans wanted. Not to mention that sex scene that seemed to be wrote by a complete moron was definitely what we waited for. In conclusion Naughty Dog has broken a core tenant of every game: Games are meant to be FUN. This game is a perfect example of why some sequels are not meant to be made.
Excelente! Diferente de tudo, viceral e perfeito no level design. Uma história que cresce e te deixa curioso para mais e mais a cada momento. Supera o primeiro em todos os aspectos. Uma obra para ser curtida e digerida por todos. Game obrigatório, um dos melhores da geração e de sempre.
TL;DR: You can pass on this one, watch on youtube if you wan't to know the story. ======================================================================= Great graphics. nuff said, One of the best looking PS4 game. Gameplay, its the same with minor improvement from the original game. And after you play it for 20 hours, it become boring and tedious. AI still dumb Story, well its revenge story, bad one that is. Compared to the original game, this one feels unlike the unique "human" side of the post apocalyptic story the original game had. And this game even try to drag the playtime to agonizing hours of playing character you don't know and probably don't care at all. All i want is the dynamic relationship between elie and joel which -fortunately- i still can enjoy through the flashback scenes. Overall, i feel disappointed, i wish the leak aren't true, i refuse to beliefe it from the bottom from my heart. They throw away what i love from the first game and give me cringy coming of age revenge story. Mediocre naughty dog, mediocre. Gameplay 3/10 (nothing new, same old thing, generic stealth mechanic) Graphics 9/10 (One of the most beautiful PS4 game ever) Story 3/10 (This score for the flashback scenes) Replay value 1/10 (Play it once means you done with the game, hell you dont even need to buy the game to enjoy the story) Verdict 4/10 - I just wasted $60 for experience i can enjoy from letsplay youtube video.
Naughty dog has deceived us all. The game plays exactly plays like the 1st game, brings nothing new except for the “jump button.” And guess what? The jumping mechanism sucks. Naughty dog confirmed ellie was the only playable character but half way through YOU HAVE TO PLAY AS JOELS KILLER. The shehulk and her friends who kill joel, they force you to play as her. And the ending!! It makes zero sense!! Ellie kills all of abby’s friends and thousands of others to get to abby and guess what? When she finds abby they had a qte boss fight. Yes, the final boss fight is a QTE!!! She wins the fight and lets abby go after she had a flashback of joel. The end. Oh this game has some serious sjw propaganda and cringy moments. If u dont like sjw politics, STAY AWAY!!


The gameplay is great due to the graphics. Such as the scenery and the characters themselves, but doesn’t beat the fact that the storyline is terrible. The beloved character is disrespected and majority of the trailers had swapped character models in order to promote the game. False advertising as you will. Sadly disappointed and sickened by the loss of the magic touch it had due to the first one. Awful buildup, weak climax, waste of an ending.
THIS IS ACTUALLY AN ANIMATED MOVIE WHERE YOU CAN'T DO ANYTHING. Ending is the best example.. I decided to watch the playthrough before buying the game and..... that's what saved me. 60$ I shall spend on something worth while. On Twitch.tv there was 200k people watchin the game after the release. Maybe 10% liked it. In my opinion not even. Most of the game is stale and boring. - Characters are not interesting one bit. It feels like they tried to jammed in there as many as possible new secondary characters. Unnecessary. - Voice acting really good. - Graphics - ok. But what else would you expect from 3A studio. - I enjoyed the atmosphere from time to time but as I said it was getting boring for me and other viewers. - Game play itself is nothing new. Stupid AI. Hard to move around. No new features were introduced since the first game. I shall remind you - it was 7 years ago, and this is 3A game. - PLOT. Classic revenge plot. Badly executed. If you would like to play a game with a similar scenerio check out Far Cry 3 - amazing game, still to this day. They knew how to handle this kind of story. Naughtydawg tho.... Not only they ruined what people loved in the first game but delivered poiontless game in which how it turns out you can't alteret evens in one bit.
the duality of the story is incredibly capable of leaving you without knowing what to feel, and this is the best feeling that TLOU2 provides, the gameplay is just fantastic, and the story sometimes fails, but in general arrest you, no game is perfect, but TLOU2 come close Amazing, so Sad about the hate, people dont understood that its a differnt story.
Good game but it has its flaws . It reminds me of the situation Evil within 1 and 2. Evil within 2 was not bad but I liked Evil Within 1 more ,which was more linear. I still consider evil within 1 to be one of the best horror games .The same goes for Last of us 1, which is one of the best exclusive on the playstation.Last of us 2 definitely did not live up to expectations . Disappointment . Story is terribly weak, the end of the story is also quite a disappointment .
Im really not pleased with the last of us part 2 it's really destroyed the first game meaning of struggle and survival. Killing our characters after everything that they went through like it makes no sense. I keep telling myself that they shouldn't have made part 2.
Es bueno pero no perfecto, si lo digo por encima y como casi todo el mundo, por que para mi no tiene un 10? Simplemente el trato al personaje más querido y el final es decepcionante para mi. (Joel eres una basura) eso es lo que te dice el juego en todo momento y bueno si te impacta tanto como a mi te lo pasarás por ley no porque te encanta.

Ironically, the best thing about The Last of Us Pt 2 is how fun the gameplay is. It’s only ironic, because Neil Druckman didn’t want his audience to consider the game ‘fun’. Ultimately, this is an exhausting, poorly written game. Characters are simply not given the proper depth and development to bring in the same emotional punches of the first entry. Pacing, and a bloated ending really made this game feel like a drag, and truly keeps it from achieving the same level of greatness as the original.
The game isn't nearly as good as the first one. Joels death was cruel and people aren't complaining about that he died, they are complaining about the way he died. They advertised Joel in their trailers and he died 2 hours in. Meanwhile Abby was barely shown in the trailer and you are forced to play a character you hate for about 10 hours. I call this false advertIsement. The flashback scenes are really out of place and feels like they just edited them in, in the last second. The characters that die, barely get mentioned after they die. It is like they forgot that they ever existed. They are trying to make the player like abby and feel bad for her but it really isn't working at all. The ending was horrible, I tought FINALLY ABBY IS GOING TO DIE... but no. She gets to live after she bit ellies fingers. The reason to why she got to live was because Ellie got a flashback about Joel. That's literally the reason..

After playing the game, I felt the story was terrible and the amount of story plot holes is horrendous. I will commend naughty dog on the visuals, the game looks beautiful and the gameplay is better than the first game. However I play the last of us for its story telling and the way they tried to subvert your expectations didn’t work well. It’s disappointing that it took 7 years to write a story that is incoherent.

Kill joel to catalyze character development and then the climax of revenge is terrible. I could have liked it if the revenge was played out but it felt hollow at the end. Gorgeous graphics though but that plot is terrible

Неправдоподобная история. Персонажи ведут себя странно, нелогично, совсем не похожи на тех, что были в первой части. Вторая часть игры с другим протагонистом - просто рукалицо. Конец игры ещё хуже. А остальное в порядке. Только вот кто захочет проходить ЭТО во второй раз ради геймплея, графики и звука?
People need to chill with the 'all these negative reviewers haven't played it or they hate LGBTQ; nonsense. The expansion to the first game, which has Ellie kiss her female friend, was reviewed and liked very well by both users and critics. Don't discount negative reviews as most of us have played the entire game and no reviews mentioning things like 'agenda' or 'SJW.' This game is nowhere near the masterpiece it is touted as but it's not a terrible game either. I appreciate Naughty Dog for attempting to push the boundaries of emotional intensity but while this is praiseworthy, they failed spectacularly. The characters could all be interchanged with their motives, and no one would know the difference. Ellie, who you would come to love in the first game as a spunky, lighthearted but caring person is devolved into whatever it is they call a character. I do understand why they wanted to go this direction with the story, but it's so poorly done and contrived. Ellie's voice actor's talented was wasted by this script. The gameplay overall was quite fun for the first 10-15 hours but puzzles they used in the first game, are too far and few between here. It soon gets stale and if that isn't bad enough, they throw a huge tonal shift at you and expect the same gameplay to carry you through for another 10 hours or so. That being said, the environment design is amazing and it does make Seattle feel like it's own character. What they did here was nothing short of amazing. I think most people would like the story beats and feel it compelling for the first half of the game and does have some pretty good moments. Overall, I'd say I'm ok with the beginning and ending of the story, but getting there was emotionally painful and unpleasant to play through. This is a videogame first and foremost after all and thus I can't give it a positive score for any of it's redeeming qualities.
اللعبة سيئة جدا من ناحية القصه خاصة بعد موت جول بهذي الطريقه السيئة يظل الجزء الأول هو الافضل مهما حصل


The Last Of Us is in my top 5 games ever made. Part 2 is the opposite of what i wanted in a sequel. (and to be honest a sequel was not necessary in the first place) Regardless of the political motivations of the story, The writing is just bad, There are several plot holes one of which is the backbone of the entire story. it's just incredibly lazy writing. There are several new characters none of which are particularly likable and some who are straight up detestable. Gameplay wise, not much has actually changed from the first game, despite what trailers had led us to believe. Above all, the main problem with this game, is even describing it as a game. Calling it a game suggests there is some level of enjoyment to be had from playing it. When in reality The Last Of Us Part 2 is a thoroughly unpleasant experience all round. I wasn't even sure how to rate this experience. a 0 might seem like i'm just another person trying to "troll" the game (a term seemingly used only when people disagree with your personal dislike of something and a way for them to try invalidate said opinion) but it came down to this. Is there ANYTHING about this game that i feel would make me want to go through "playing" it again? would i recommend it to someone who might enjoy it even if i didn't? sadly the answer to both of those questions is no. The Last Of Us Part 2 is poorly written, with no significant gameplay changes, but above all is simply not a pleasant experience to slog through. Fortunately my old house mate works for Sony so i didn't have to pay to "play" this game.


While the gameplay is not special but ok I feel like the story really hurts this game, I was hoping the leaks weren't true but unfortunately they were, they lie in the trailer about Joel's involvement in the game, and ending is vary anti-climatic and will leave you scratching your head wondering "Why?", it felt like a chore to finish this game.
The story is disappointing the new characters are not interesting in any way with no back story to know them better the way joel is dead with a golf club is just disrespectful to the players and community of TLOU I’m really sad to see one of my favorite games of all times get ruined like this.
This is probably the most terrible twist in gaming history. Kill one of the most beloved character joel and then make you play as the killer abby who is very detestable. They did nothing that made me feel sympathy for her. The only good things is the graphics and frantic gameplay that gives you the good feel of the crazy world and the enemies that inhabit it. But what is the point of all that when the story is a shovel of garbage.



What can I say? The narrative of this game was a complete insult to everything that made the first amazing. It makes it seem as if everything they had gone through meant nothing at all. The gameplay, graphics, lighting, sound were all phenomenal, but in a narrative driven game, the story matters so much more, and it was atrocious. Druckmann... I don't even know what you were thinking. You've done wonders for the profits of those making depression meds.
Only the environment and graphics are good, most of the characters look ugly as **** The story is **** and horrific. The pandering and virtue signalling is extremely high with this one. This game has totally destroyed The last of us. If you can stay away from this **** and play any better game. Naughty Dog has totally **** up. Anger and hate is the only emotion that I felt while playing this game.
Ive never played such a fantastic game!! The world here is the true star of the game. the apocalyptic setting is jaw dropping. Story is very well done and the gameplay is just terrific. This game will be talked about for years to come and is the best game this year.
Good graphics decent level design that's about the only positives of the game the story has so many plot holes they time jump years to fit the new narrative and the ending is so lackluster same old revenge story that doesn't pay off & to anybody that's still interested in getting this game I'd recommend going pre owed that way you can get your money back if you don't like it
Seems to me the development team actively go put of their way to make sure identity politics and sjws are all over this game....shame because the world created is amazing and the gameplay can be really fun at times. However story decisions and direction makes this quite disjonted from the original game.
Es uno de los mejores juegos de la PS4, puede que a nivel argumentativo flaquee un poco, hay que admitirlo. Pero eso no demerita que es un excelente juego a nivel técnico, diseño de niveles, la realidad en cada esquina del juego hace que te inmersas en este mundo post-apocaliptico. Ya jugué Gosh of Tsushima y tengo que decir que no le llega ni a los talones a lo que TLOU II tiene por ofrecerles. Enjoy it!.
I waited 7 long years for this game. Tlou 1 had such a beautiful and emotional story that I instantly fell in love with the game and I waited such a long time for this sequel, but I can't believe this is what I was waiting for. I just can't accept this as the second part of that beautiful game that I used to love so much. Niel Druckman I can't believe what you have done to my most favorite game, you only deserve to be insulted.

This game is a Masterpiece! It has the best graphics in video game history and the gameplay is so good! The Story makes you feel every emotion. Good Job Naughty Dog you made another masterpiece!

O jogo é simplesmente incrível seja em qualidade técnica quanto de narrativa, é bem ousada o que é algo extremante bom nos dias de hoje onde os jogos seguem padrões já bastante batidos. É um daqueles jogos que saem um a cada geração. Incrível.
Outstanding production values, superb acting and gripping story mixed with fantastic gameplay makes this one of the best games on PlayStation 4. Incredible sequel to the original that builds upon the world in new ways to deliver a generation defining title. The gameplay is evolved from the first game in new directions and feels amazing to control. The environments are stunning to look at and explore. Character models are photorealistic and evoke complex emotions. This story builds upon the original in fascinating ways that question the nature of revenge. Melancholic, beautiful, terrifying... this game explores every shade of the human soul. It’s an emotional rollercoaster from start to finish, Naughty Dog studios simply deliver in every way!
The gameplay is the only reason this game gets a rating higher than 1. There is no character development for the new characters and the ending is horrible. You play as Abby for ten hours which is way too long and Joel gets tortured to death in the first two hours of the game. The plot is a generic revenge is bad lesson. The game should not be as long as 20 hours, the first game wasn’t near as long and it was perfect. ND tries to make you feel sympathy for Abby by revealing the surgeon from the first game as her father but it fails miserably. After you are done traveling 12 hours as Ellie to find Abby in Santa Barbara you don’t even kill her, that would have been the perfect moment for a choice. When Ellie arrives back at the farm every one has left which makes the entire story pointless. They could have made the game so much better if they made Tommy die and Joel travels with Ellie for vengeance. At the end they confront Tommy’s killer and the killer shoots at Ellie but Joel jumps in front of Ellie takes the bullet and shoots the killer. Joel’s last dying breath would be I’m sorry and Ellie would say I forgive you, (this is referencing the hospital). When Ellie arrives in Jackson everyone there is infected and Ellie has to kill everybody she once called family.
The game doesn't do the franchise as a whole any good whatsoever instead of creating a compelling story of revenge and finally taking down the final boss but instead after all the killing you've done and sacrifices you let her go for no reason whatsoever the worst thing about this whole game is after killing the character everyone loved in a brutal way they try and get you to sympathise with her



Sem dúvidas um dos melhores jogos que joguei nos últimos anos. A história é simplesmente incrível, tem ação, muita tensão e é muito emocionante e triste. Uma excelente continuação do primeiro jogo.
Let me just say this game absolutely looks AMAZING, it's incredibly detailed -- but what hides behind this glory, is a terribly written, generic, flat and flawed plot that not only fails this franchise's' story, but also makes the gameplay and the entire experience so bland and meaningless. This game in brief throws everything that was good in the first game out of the window while deconstructing itself in the same process. I have finished the game and I loved the first game so much, but why 4/10? 1) This game's gameplay despite being enhanced upon the original formula, the general tone, the narrative, the things you fight for, the places you visit, all of them are just bland, meaningless, bleak and often depressing. There is no fun here whatsoever. There is a lack of good enemy variety as well. The pacing and the structure of this game are poorly done. Since this game is so unnecessarily long, the gameplay ends up being repetitive so quickly, presenting nothing significantly new at the same time. Overall, it's a weaker game than TLOU1. 2) The story of this game is a complete mess. There are too many failures here that I will try my best to mention them: - The game presents uninteresting characters, none of them you will even connect with or remember. Even the characters you once knew, are badly presented in here. It's the complete opposite of how masterfully the first game presented its characters. - Way too many plot armors. Many dangerous cutscenes are poorly designed, some will make you laugh honestly. - A new character named Abby shows up and suddenly gets the spotlight of the entire game, plus a 10 - 12 hours section which is unfortunately a boring stretched out filler. This character randomly and quickly inflicts a violent act in a way that doesn’t make sense from many aspects. When it tries to make you understand, the whole story just falls on its face, because there is no ground laid out well here, no effective build up, no good narrating whatsoever. The way everything unfolds is just rushed, weird and meaningless. - This game is mostly about Abby. The story even retells the first game’s story from her own perspective. The execution of this new character fails hard on so many levels. The introduction of this character alongside her backstory could have been executed far, far, FAR better. - Plot holes are all over the place. Storytelling is horribly done, confusing at times. There are things that happen that just make you laugh out loud, and others make no sense or happen in a very dry and flat way. The narrative is abysmal and it feels lost and rushed. - The plot itself is a revenge plot that’s massively generic and pity. There is no good story to begin with, everything is just… dry, random and flat. It’s not entertaining, it’s not interesting, it’s not unique and nothing else compensates for this because the game has erased every single thing that was good about the first game. The characters here are so bland, boring and depressing, INCLUDING ELLIE AND JOEL. Their relationship here is a letdown and a weird transformation from the first game. Again, the game just feels like that it wants to deconstruct itself so rapidly. - Joel is so not part of this game, he is shoved on the side and only appears in very few flashbacks and he is only playable for like 10 mins total. They tried to false advertise that he is a big part of it by the way. Yikes... - The new Ellie is a character that I found so hard to connect with. On a personal level, she is hella boring and violently STUPID. And as I said, her relationship with Joel has been completely altered in a boring weird way. Her actions and her journey felt unsatisfying, sometimes questionable. - The game ends hilariously bad making the whole plot feel more useless and meaningless. It leaves nothing to look for in the future of this series. - There are just way too many negatives on this game’s story honestly, I am extremely shocked this is a sequel to the first game. It’s so different in a really BAD and generic way. 3) There is nothing to go back for. No good replay value with such dragged out bland and flawed experience.
the game is a masterpiece and anyone who says otherwise is just hating ... it's not the story we wanted but the story we didn't know we needed . the gameplay is much better than the first one and the graphics are the best . i love it and i hope there will be a part III in the future
First let me just say, hats off to ND for the incredible graphics. The graphics of this game is one of a kind. Gameplay wise I think it was above average. Nothing too different from the first one. But the story was a failure to me. I know ND tried something different with the story but it just didn't click with me. At some point I just wanted the game to be over because I grew tired.
I truly loved the feel of playing this game(all the love to the grunts of Naughty Dog). But I did not love the world I was trapped in. I maybe emotional, but I know this game isnt more than a 6/10. Again, I truly love the passion that the core of ND puts into these games and it shows. But what also reveals itself is maybe some leadership issues. This comes from a passionate fan of ND.
Only worth the praise is its game-play and even that isn't much of an improvement, the graphics are beautiful and the cinematography and visual palate is interesting. Story is an absolute joke, the whole 'haha gottem', 'subverting your expectations, haha!" is such a tiring game. It feels like the story is allover the place, and it wanted to go in two different directions but for some godforsaken reason it didn't and it just fall flat on its face.
first things first metacritic you need to fix this User review system, how can you poof someone own the game? anyone can review and give 0 who don't even own the game. My score graphics 10/10 Seattle day 2 Chapter "The Seraphites" look so good in ps4 pro 4k TV sounds 9/10 map design 8/10 gameplay 9/10 the AI some time get in your way enemy/infected 9/10 story 8/10 a lot peoples hate abby for me I feel for her, She has the right to revenge her dad it a love & Hate
The graphics and gameplay are good. But the story is so bad it drowns out all the good elements. Feels like more of a lecture then a video game. Every character acts weird and unrecognisable. The characters motivations constantly change and how each character acts makes no sense.

Even though I would not call the story "perfect" (in opposite to Part I) I think this is the greatest game I've ever played. In all technical aspects it's obvious. But the way TLoU2 provokes thought is unrivaled. If you are open-minded you will love this game.

Did naughty dog forget how to make games or something. My God this just feels like a giant middle finger to the fans of the first game. I read the gamestop article about how you'd be hunted by dogs and then naughty dog said if you play the game a certain way and stay in stealth you wouldn't have to kil any dogs. This wasn't true. I play it stealthily but had to kill a dog in a quick time event. I know if your reading this you probably won't give a **** about that, so I'll move on to the story. The whole cycle of revenge arc is the most stupid plot I've ever seen in a game. The fact that at the end Ellie gives up on revenge, but still loses two fingers, dina leaves her and I doubt tommy would want to take her in seeing as she still didn't kill abby. Abby, on the other hand basically got away with murder. Sure she was strung up and nearly starved but she got away didn't she? While even though her friends all died, most of them she ended up hating,and she gets to sail away and start a new life. I mean, the message of the game is that revenge is bad, but it just proves the opposite. Abby, who got her revenge at the start gets to start a new life wherever she goes. Ellie has nothing. She let go of revenge which was the right thing to, do(even though I would have killed abby) and it feels like she's being punished. Which brings me to the last scene:just before the last flashback of joel, where you play guitar for the last time, the way the guitar doesn't play properly because you can only play with two fingers feels like and insult. It feels like naughty dog were laughing when they made this scene. Honestly, I didn't get the game on the ps3, I got the remaster, but does that make me any less of a fan? Maybe, but I played bad video games before, and they were all goty compared to this piece of ****
Worst game of the year. The plot is half filler. The gameplay is monotonous and boring. The entire budget of the game was spent on graphics and animation.

Critical points :Weak story, pathetic attempt to make players to like a character who is an antagonist in first half and pointless ending Summary :Its a woke game totally , they tried to make Abby as Joel and Lev as Ellie and whenever you tried to like a character they get killed off except for Abby,Lev as they were new Joel and Ellie In this game Ellie and Abby are unstable characters where Ellie suddenly forgives Abby at end , Abby kills her own Wolf group who were innocent(friends of Abby) and just following orders of their leader Issac just to save Lev Man....... If it wasn't for graphics ,the game will be 0/10
Я не могу понять, как можно было испортить столь крутую серию? Хотя если превратить ее в скучную, с плохим посредственном сюжетом, и пропагандой, ну тогда так можно. Что касательно геймплея то она была ещё и в первой части, а графика не спасает, если ты бегаешь по красивому миру, который номинально пуст и не вызывает у тебя привязанности к этому миру.
The game has nice graphics, but shows things i don't want to see. The level of violence is to high. The political and woke agenda i don't want in my games. The ending of characters who build the story and this world, why? I buy games for entertainment, escaping my daily routine. This game brings a bad feeling from beginning to end. The company selling this game should reconsider what they want their fans to experience and what their purpose as entertainment company is.Instead of showing the people the lgbt community is an important equal asset to society, Abby is portrait like a murdering lunatic. Great example. I did not even mention the copy right strike affair. That can not be forgiven.

My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined. How Naughty dog managed to ruin a beautiful story with unnecessary propaganda is just beyond me. The characters are unbearable, story doesn't make any narrative sense whatsoever. I wonder if the writer of the game was a complete idiot. Even fan stories would have made much sense than these incoherent mess of story telling with pointless and unlike a le characters. The game play is nothing much to brag about. Slightly modification from the first but I never played the last of us for its game play. Stay away from this game. It's worth not spending any money o. This
Графика 10 из 10 Геймплей 10 из 10 Сюжет -10 из 10 Этой игрой вы убили во мне любовь к игре The Last of Us и любовь к студии Naughty Dog. Как вообще можно было выпустить это сюжетное недоразумение!?
The first one was my favorite game of that generation, and this one is somehow better. Makes me more confident about the TV show and a possible part 3.

Тупая сжв агитка, про то как беременные бабы ходят в разведку, при этом есть целая база вооруженных людей, которые могут сделать тоже самое.

Poor continuation of a great story. Killing Joel and not avenging his death just to let his killer go sucks. Also Ellie going back home just to find out her new family is gone sucks. Game play is good just about the same as the original. My only problem is killing a character just to kill a character and have no conclusion to his death. Dina would have been a much better character to kill and give Ellie a reason to avenge a death and spark a side story to allow you to play as Joel to go an try to stop her.
Este juego es una OBRA MAESTRA, de esos videojuegos que salen 1 vez en una década, con la impresión que puede convertirse en el juego de esta nueva década, como ya fue su primera parte en la década pasada.
I don’t see why this game is getting hate. While I was new to the series (picked up part 1 a month before part 2 came out) so maybe that has something to do with it? In my opinion it is one of if not the greatest single player campaign I’ve ever experienced. I lol’ed I cried I screamed the most. I even began pausing the game anytime something scary happened so much it became something I had to actively fight myself from doing. I can’t recommend this game enough! And with all these bad reviews I’m sure you can find it used if you’re on a bugit! Can’t wait to see what’s next from Naughty dog

Wow! What have you done?!!!!! Naughty dog just become another EA another Bethesda another Activision another NO-NAME. 1. False advertising is just plain disgusting. There are just no words for that. As I said ND just has become another NO-NAME. 2. Killing off the most beloved character that who played and loved TLOU cared about and played the game for is plain stupid. Especially this way. 3. ND just made another Call of Duty. Senseless killing room to room from place to place without story is another Call of Duty. 4. It is true. It takes 7 years to become something and ND proved it true again. ND just become another one. Nothing special. Just plain 0. But we have hope. And it is called: CD PROJEKT RED
They literally tried to sell the game on the name of the last of us. The story is so distant and the characters are not who they were in the first game. This feels more like an Uncharted game with a bad story and less puzzles.
Fail of the year candidate. Game leaves very strange feeling. From technical perspective it is fine, nice animations, good picture in most places (except ligh in first town, when you can play snowballs it's terrible). The story seems to be intended to shock and it does. In first part that endless collecting for different thrash vas boring - not it is even more boring. You're now unlimited in stealth kills, no need to collect knives. Almost all fights can be done in stealth with instant kills. But the worst is when creators forces you yo play as an anthagonist, who you basically intended to hate. Unfortunately, there's no way to continue progressing the story, after you let Abby die in different ways, but it stopped me from continue playing after some fun letting her die. I'm so glad I havn't bought it (a friend of mine borrowed it to me).

Probably my most eagerly awaited game, seven years in the making and while the gameplay, graphics and infected characters are amazing, the story and plot are just hideous and poorly executed, in the end, it was all pointless.
The game is almost a complete waste of money the good bits graphics and music (by now most games should be topping 8 or 9 for music scores). The bad bits game-play hasn’t moved on in 7 years, the amount of time where you don’t really do much and the story which is more like fan fiction. Thank god I borrowed it rather then paid for it.
Bad history, plot holes. for the fans of the first game this game is a big fu! the visual of the game is good but in a history driven game its nots near enough
Good lord. This game is incredibly depressing. Mind you! There is a specific horrifying scene that was not included in all the spoiler talk. Beware going in.
Disgusting! Pure disgust for Naughty Dog, Sony, MUSO and most of all all you fake media outlets for your bogus reviews. Most of the world is sickened by all this crap being shoved down our throats!
Graphics is just an art beyond praise, playability + is good, rather even good, but the plot ... who invented this game is about the plot, not about the music, not the graphics, but about the plot.
If people didn’t get to play the first game, then this game’s story wouldn’t feel too horrible since you won’t have a reference point or any emotional connection to the lead characters. It’s such a tremendous let-down because the first game set such a high bar story-telling wise. The first game conveniently used McCarthy’s The Road as an “inspiration”, this game’s original story ends up ironically exposing how inadequate Neil Druckmann actually is as a story-teller. There are plenty of argument out there already discussing why the story is bad so I won’t dive into details but let me point to the obvious one here - how do you expect the audience to care about the characters in the 2nd half when you already *spoiler* all of them in the first? To be perfectly clear, I’ve got nothing against *spoiler* getting killed. The critical flaw lies in the story’s structure itself - when you can’t connect to the characters and the audience stopped caring, the 2nd half of the game felt so long and patronizing. Every single plot point felt so contrived and worked too hard seemingly trying to “influence” the choices you have no power to make in the first place. An easy fix would be giving this game multiple endings based on the moral choices you had to make, which shouldn’t be too hard, I’ll be happy to take just two endings - to kill or not to kill. On supporting characters - I don't necessarily agree you can just dismiss them. We see plenty of examples how supporting characters can truly shine and be memorable. Even in the first game - beyond Joel and Ellie’s bonding dynamic - the supporting encounters put flesh on the bone making the whole story and the world so much richer and more dimensional. If the second game is about diversity and inclusion (which I’m rooting for) Neil’s paper-thin characters really became piss-takes. Major major failure here (again, due to that stupid structure) On Ellie/Abby’s arc - this is exactly why I felt this game is so patronizing. *Spoiler* gets killed 30 mins into the game and you already know this is revenge story, there’s no more explanation needed for what the writer is trying to say here. Secondly if the cathartic release is about turning Abby into a likable character - it’ll have to take more than a full game to do that. She *spoiler* the lead character for FS! It took us 40 hours in the whole first game to love Joel/Ellie in the first place. Another case in point for Game of Thrones fans here - after the Red Wedding, how long did it take us to like Jamie Lannister? The whole entire f*&king show. And it’ll be much harder to tell Neil Druckmann’s 2nd part without the support of secondary characters, again. Hence it’s so arrogant for Neil Druckmann to assume players will buy into his BS and have a satisfying ending. End of the day, a good ending is NOT decided by who gets killed who gets to live, it is whether or not it is SATISFYING. I’d even go further to say that it is the storytellers RESPONSIBILITY to make it satisfying. At the end of Breaking Bad, Walter White dies - but it still is the one of the most satisfying and celebrated ending of all time. Now that’s a good story. I really hope that they replace Neil Druckmann with a fresh better writer to do the next game, otherwise there’s no way I’m buying his crap again.
This games was falsely advertised they tried to make people think Joel was in it. The few lines he had in the trailer were actually said by other characters... they made him look older and had him say stuff in the trailer to make you think he would be in it for a while. I won't say too many details but i put spoiler in case people felt what i said was spoilery. The narrative is bad. The lack of choice is bad. The characters don't learn. And when the player has learned revenge is bad and you want to make other choices you can't. And they just beat you over the head with all the bad decisions.


The low ratings are really unfair, I but most haven’t even touched the game. I’m about 10 hours in right now and the story thusfar is amazing and so is the gameplay. But i’m of the opinion that we shouldn’t judge a book by it’s cover so a rating of someone whom has played an hour of the game isn’t really fair is it?

Naughty dog treated beloved characters like crap. The setting and the story are terrible and sloppy. This franchise is all about the story; and attachment to the characters; without the story the game means nothing. Great graphics; good gameplay mechanics; but it does not compensate the horrible story in this game. What a dissapointment.

So...it's there. We've all been waiting for it. And it kind of sucks to be honest. Why did they retconned the ending of Part1? Why did they completely swapped out the two most important characters to replace them with morons? I don't get it. It looks and sounds awesome for sure, yet I can't appreciate the final product at all. Why? Because TLoU was never about looks, sound or even gameplay. Admit it, the gameplay always was mediocre at best. It was the narrative that made it a masterpiece. There was this overreaching major storyarc of saving humanity and there was the evolving relationship between a girl that never learned what true love is and a father who thought that true love died with his daughter years ago...and yet both found what they never expected: True love for each other. And at the end this true love was more important to Joel than humanity itself. And TLoU2 **** on all of it! It's just a mere revenge story with no giant storyarc that pushes everything forward. Just bitterness back and forth with stupid character writing that really boggled my mind while playing it. Thanks Naughty Dog for destroying a franchise. I'm really glad the first one will always be a perfect interactive movie that didn't need a sequel anyway. It got a sequel...but I'll erase it out of my memory for sure. My score is for the technical standards alone. The Story/Writing gets a bold 1/10 from me.
This game is an absolute disaster and evil masquerading as art. A completely stupid and nonsensical story told through absurd and unjustified levels of brutality and violence. This game is rotten and will leaving you feeling the same - it's like everyone at Naughty Dog has some sick infatuation with watching and making people suffer (including the player) - how is this the same company that used to make fun games like Jak and Uncharted?? Find yourselves again Naughty Dog, this game is evil.
After seeing that the leaks were true and worst the ending had no redemptive plot I was so glad I ask for a refund for this game, the Last of us part 1 had something that genuinely motivated me to play in contrast to this story for part 2 which I just cant mustard up any interest to play :(

Mediocre gameplay, good graphics but terrible story. This game is extremely disrespectful to fans of the first game. If you love the first game don't play this one, it's not worth your time, money and pain.
A pure masterpiece like no other game in history. It’s just worth buying a PlayStation 4 only and only to experience this single game. Experience it as soon as possible cause these kinds of gems come out only once or twice in every decade.
but I really did not expect such a poor story after all these years of waiting. While there were a few genuinely good moments.The game had good graphics.
A unique gaming experience that will test both your brain and heart. It's definitely not for everyone but if you are a self reflecting , thinking type of person this game will give you a lot. It's not a perfect game, but it's deeply human and has a highly actual and commendable message. I myself haven't played anything close to this yet.
Technically and gameplay wise, this game does everything better than the first game. Too bad the story isn’t as good. Such a great opportunity to make a perfect game, wasted due to a succession of poor story choices, botched characters and an underwhelming conclusion to what should have been a masterpiece. Do better next time.
An absolute masterpiece in story telling and gameplay, the level design, soundtrack, gameplay, story, characters, everything is done brilliantly with so much care, ignore the ridiculous negative reviews that were posted within hours after release. People are basing reviews off leaks and Sony actions towards trying to plug the leaks, a good thing if you ask me. Neil Druckmann in my opinion is the best director/writer of all time in gaming. This game is a must play and is brilliant in all areas, one of the best games of all time and credit should go to Naughty Dog for creating a game not many other comes near to.



Absolutely, completely and utterly stunning achievement. BOTW used to be my #1 game, it was nearly perfect... Yet, Naughty Dog has reached the peak of this industry, virtually everything in TLOU2 is impeccable. I can't believe how good this game is, and I terribly pity those who didn't feel what we've felt while playing it and finishing it. The best thing in the Entertainment culture ever made, period.
It's not right to review-bomb a game that you haven't even spent some time in or given a chance. I watched TheRadBrad play the whole thing through and while yes, there were certainly... unexpected moments, the game as a unified whole is nothing short of a masterpiece--linear storytelling perfected. If you haven't gotten around to playing or watching it yet, I highly recommend that you do.
This game is a perfect example of the poor story writing. It stands nowhere near the original story of Joel and Ellie and it rather feels like a fan fiction of the talentless teenager. I have to admit that the gameplay and graphics are awesome and ND employees responsible for these elements did a great job. And it's te only reason why this games doesn't get "0" or "1". However, these elements are not the most important in the game which wants to present a certain story. It is the story itself that has to be great. Unfortunately, it is not the case when it comes to TLoU 2. Neil Druckmann and his crew clearly show that they don't give the monkeys about the first game of the series: its heroes, their motivations, character traits, and so on and so forth. They simply threw everything into a dustbin and spit into the faces of the players who fell in love with Joel and Ellie. I totally understand that the postapocalicptic world is hostile and there is a high chance of some of the characters being killed one way or another. But, for the f* sake, you don't slaughter Joel like a pig by the character who at this point of the story is completely random. No explanation, no insight into the character of Abby who murders Joel and then forcing the players to play as this steroid-eating monster for about 10 hours is barbaric, terrible, unacceptable and it is simply a punch in the players' faces. Not to mention the fact that Joel and Tommy completely open to the newly met person they know nothing about xD However, even if Joel's death could be considered understandable or acceptable, the events after his death make the game even worse. Ellie clearly suffers when she kills Abby's friends but sees nothing wrong in murdering hundreds of random NPCs (f* logic and freedom of choice when it comes to completing the game - either in Rambo or stealthy way). Then we get to the ending of the game which is about REVENGE and yet we get no revenge. Ellie loses everything: Joel, Dina and "their" child, Jessie, two fingers (which make it impossible for her to play the guitar - her last connection with Joel) and she lets Abby live!!! Mr. Druckmann, WTF is wrong with you man?! You blatantly show the murderer of Joel - the killing machine without any moral code who sees nothing wrong in killing a pregnant woman or butchering Joel in front of his brother and Ellie who begs her to stop - not meeting justice for what she did. You deny the whole point of the games which is about REVENGE. So what was the point of the whole journey of Ellie? She could've stayed in Jackson - at least she wouldn't lose anything apart from Joel. At the end I would like to "thank" Naughty Dog for deluding players with the fake trailers, lying about Ellie being the only playable character, no need to kill dogs to complete the game, etc. The company which brought us the beautiful games like Crash Bandicoot trilogy, Crash Team Racing, Jak and Daxter series, Uncharted series and the first TLoU turned into a ruin when it comes to story writing. Neil Druckmann destroys the heritage of over 20 years of ND (including crunch of the workers) and he cares more about including the "progressive" ideology into the game instead of the great story itself. As long as people of his kind lead ND, I will spare my time and money for their next projects. It's sad but it's necessary to see the company revive.
What made the first game really special was the story. I found the gameplay to be ok but it was the story that made the game great. The problem here is that the gameplay has not changed much and the story is just dreadful. The futility of it all is no fun. I don’t want to play a game and reach the end to think to myself, ‘All of that was totally pointless.’ Yes the graphics are superb, but for me replayability and fun gameplay are a must. This doesn’t have that for me. On top of this, the story is awful and it seems decisions were made to make it into a really depressing, ‘thought provoking’, ‘study’ of ‘humankind’. Well, I didn’t learn anything I didn’t already know and got bored doing it. The game was a struggle to finish and I won’t be going back. Glad I played it? Kind of. Enjoyed playing it? Not really.
the game was not good what we like about the first game was the love we saw from the 2 protagonists here they slaughter what we learn to love , then they try to hard to make us feel something for a terrible character that nobody wants. after a couple hrs i star playing **** you know the name I couldn't continue playing......

Entertaining gameplay that does nothing new but works Great. The story is really really bad and makes no sense whatsoever. Lets Just remember part 1 as a contained story and forget about this one.
Finished the game in about 30 hours and overall I enjoyed it, but I can also understand the criticism the game is receiving from a large group of gamers, and even agree with some points. So here it goes: - Is this game better than the first one? No, it is not, this game lacks some key elements of the first one, like the journey across multiple cities or the "us against the world" feeling so present in TLOU. - Is this the game a masterpiece? Graphically speaking, yes it is, it looks amazing. The performance of the voice actor and actresses is top notch and very convincing, really a 10 out of 10. But it's not perfect enough to be called a masterpiece. There's too much repetition combat wise, for example. - Is the story good? That's a tough one, yes and no, but the only way I found to answer that is by saying: its a good story for this game alone, but as a story worthy of a sequel to the first game? No. Like I said before, it's not the same feeling as it lacks key elements of the first game. - Is there wokeness in the game? Yes, and I most definitely don't like politics and social activism in games, because it tends to ruin them, but it's not a big issue in TLOU2. It didn't bother me in this case. - Was Joel's death really necessary to the sequel? Not in my opinion, there was other possibilities, it did work for the story, but still didn't like this creative choice from Naughty Dog. This was very disappointing. Well, I do think people should play this game, but I would wait for some PSN sale in the future.
Ótimo jogo, qualidade gráfica e otimização da jogabilidade, exploração, jogar na furtividade e etc história um pouco polêmica pois mata personagens querido mas temos que entender que é um mundo perigoso que vc mata pessoas pra se defender e pode trazer consequências é uma história emocionante, não é jogo pra crianças imaturas que chora pq seu personagem morreu
Felt hollow with just a political narrative. The gameplay felt smooth and improved but not the main focus. Story and character usually was. It mattered little to care for the beloved characters of prior just to focus on other characters' poor introductions and involvements.
This game man....the gameplay and graphics are on point. I actually really enjoyed the first half of this game. The second half though? So boring! I had huge trouble finishing the game. The second half of this game just doesn't stick the landing for me. I respect Naughty Dog for telling the story they wanted, but it didn't move me like the first game.
Looks good, Played the same as Last of Us 1. Not many gameplay improvements. I found the story boring and a slap in the face to fans, who waited 7 years for this sequel. I have no issue with the LGBT elements of the game, with Ellie its not her entire character, its a main point but she is more than just a lesbian character. I have issue with playing 10 hours of a character who killed a main beloved character in as humiliating away as possible, for what? Try to find common ground with said character and myself? Ultimately it felt that the story didn't know where it was going. 2/10 For improving graphics on the first game, sound design, and level design. Sadly the lack of improvements on the gameplay, and the story drag the score so low.
**Spoilers ahead. ** To start I wasn't one of the original fans of The Last of Us. When it came out i heard all kinds of great things but due to circumstances in my life, i was unable to play it. I ended up buying the first game about 2 years ago on PSN after they remastered it. WOW I knew there was a second game coming but I was so beyond in love with the story of the first game and the DLC. The mechanics were flawed it is true, but the way the characters were written and the story organically unfolds it just, it just really got me hooked. I said to myself, "This would make an AWESOME TV show". Looks like HBO had the same idea apparently. This game has stuck with me in a way others couldn't. I loved all 4 Uncharted games but like most mainstream games they are a PG sort of good where is this was Game of Thrones adult good (WINK WINK). Fast forward to a few months ago. I was riding high, very excited for the new game. With the pandemic i figured this would be an amazing game to bring out right now. Much like with the new Star Wars movies I was thinking that the possibilities could be endless. You could literally make the safest story possible and still win, both critically and with the fans. Well HBO then announces they are going to make a SHOW based on TLOU with the original writer and the show runner from Chernobyl. MY GOD how awesome....HOW AWESOME! Then came the spoilers. Of course I didn't pay attention to them. For weeks, i stayed off of social media the best i could. I didn't watch any youtube videos, until at last every aspect of what little of my online presence there was, pointed to the fact that everyone unanimously hated the leaks. I figured "How bad could they possibly be?". After all, this is a game meant to shock and awe, meant to bring you in with the amazing characters that you want to see succeed or fail and then and only then, bring you to your knees. Make you rethink what is right and wrong. Real moral dilemmas we could all experience. Well we can thank Instagram for spoiling one the biggest parts for me. With one "Swing", one little picture. the whole thing was ruined. It was a character i knew and loved, yes, but it had to be an honorable death the character deserved right? There had to be more context to what happened. I caved, i looked at the spoilers. My answer was a strong NO. Instead of treating this character with the end they truly deserved, it is at the hands of some MINOR MINOR.....MINOR characters that i didn't even come close to remembering, daughter...son.... or whatever they go by. I honestly don't know and I don't give a hoot what the characters orientation is. In fact, i just don't give a crap about them honestly AT ALL. Usually we tend to care about the people we spent a good portion of 20 hours with in the first game. It would be like Disney bring Mark Hamill back just to sit him on some rocks and not do AWESOME Luke Skywalker **** or if they teased Jon Snows lineage for over TEN years only to tell you that you are stupid for following the plot points. HA! GOT YOU! ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED??? Also RIP Snoke Frankly, NO, i'm not entertained. i am actually very saddened that the very thing that can make a show or game great can willingly be used in such a poor manner just for the sake of surprising an audience. You DO NOT need to destroy everything about a story or character to make the audience surprised. Characters don't need to act out of character to reach a destination in the story. Stop dumbing down great characters to serve as plot devices. It feels forced.... awkward, not organic. It really takes me out of a story when in the middle of a scene I say to myself, "Wait,.... why did they do that, ....that isn't how that character would approach this situation." But the story needed them to, so they are written stupid that way. OK so having said all that, The Graphics look AMAZING as usual with Naughty Dog. The mechanics are better, virtually everything is better, besides the most important part. THE STORY. I had a lot more about the story i didn't like but only so much can be said in 5 thousand characters. Just like with Game of Thrones and Star Wars, this could have been one of the greatest stories in the history of media. I am literally heart broken and just like with S8 of GOT, this game totally ruins replays of the first game for me. KNOWING how god awful and ridiculously remedial part II's story ended up being. Above all else, it hurts leaving this game with the extreme disappointment of feeling "What could have been".
rated the game 2 for the only 2 characters I care about. Horrible story, Druckmann and team KNEW people would hate their choices! They just hoped to sell a ton of copies first...
A lot of the bad reviews are just mad people that didn't play the game. I played the game, and it's not about LGBT or SJW. The writing in this game is one of the worst writings in history, the character development, the situations, the editing, everything is just BAD, really BAD. The gameplay's ok, graphics are just amazing, animations are hands down the best in the market, but no one plays this game for that. The plot is just cheap, the characters are just dumb, they didn't respect the first game at all. The Abby story is just there for the sake of being there, she doesn't have something to say, they forced a purpose with the Scars, all the Hospital part to save someone she just met just to see her die after in a crappy cinematic, it's just sad, sad to see how the developer doesn't even care of what they made you go through just to kill a character that didn't even have to be saved in the beginning, it's just BAD, BAD. I was so disconnected with the main plot that I didn't even think the sniper was Tommy when it was so obvious, and it's the only time you connect something, and it's for nothing and has no sense, Manny being there, Tommy being there, you being there. Everything in this game happens because it needs to happen to move the plot forward. It's lazy, bad, and disrespectful.
Great graphics! 8.5 points a little gameplay is very bad it’s a pity that it happened so much I waited so much to play but everywhere, videos, videos. I didn’t buy a movie. And the plot upset me
Technically impressive, but the history kills me. They force feed you their JSW **** and kill the characters you love from first game. At the end of the game you cannot even get revenge. Totally dissapointing.
Great visuals, but those alone wont fix the mess of a tedious and repetitive gameplay, HIGHLY unlikable and irritating characters and mindbogglingly bad story. Way to alienate the fans of fist installment... Frankly, I didn't even mange to finish the game. Some games keep you playing because of fun gameplay, some because of interesting story and characters, few great games have both. TLOUII is just meh on all fronts. I just then watched the endfight on youtube and was glad that I decided to stop playing midgame.
Horrible story and ending, uninteresting, boring and extremely cringy, undeveloped characters, depressive, wierd, awkward cutscenes and vibe, unredeemable choices, ellie's darkness is over the top which makes the game feel uninteresting and bleak. Sadistic, disturbing, extreme and pointless, senseless violence which takes the realistic feel away, gameplay is not that special but graphically impressive and well designed.
beautiful looking game; with a halfwit story try to accomplish too much at once, i really tried to enjoy it, but there was next to no improvements game play wise to keep engaged. zombies are on the back burner. truly a shame to spend 7 years on story only to deliver this. maybe if it had multiplayer id be apt to be less harsh.

All the companies were paid to give it a great score. This was a huge disservice to all the characters from the first game. Still, I actually had many moments where I smiled during all those adorable flashbacks of Ellie and Joel and wished that those moments would have been more abundant throughout the entire game. I had moments where I actually cried, more so than I’d like to admit, because I had to watch one of my favorite characters get beaten & tortured because he and tommy let there guard down at the WORST moment ever. Even though it was gut wrenching, I must admit that I somewhat commend naughty dog for being able to make me feel that kind of emotion. No I don’t agree with it and the way + time it happened and that’s my main gripe. The story is what conflicted with me the whole damn game. I actually loved Dina as a character and the relationship her and Ellie have I could relate to because of the there age. Yet, I couldn’t stand as you go deeper into the game as Ellie (day 2 and 3 of Seattle) you watch her become this cold, dark person obsessed with revenge. Naughty dog, I understand you wanted to make this game central around revenge...but for the love of god... the amount of damn characters you killed off due to “revenge” is pathetic and I would have flipped if Abby killed Tommy as well in the theatre. Playing as Abby, honestly, I don’t know how I feel still. I didn’t despise it as much as a lot of other people did. I actually even enjoyed getting to know her crew and see that they are just trying to survive as well. Yet, I always felt this annoying “why can’t I just continue to play as Ellie...you know...the character we all believed was a huge part of the game” and that leads to my final point. Screw the living crap out of the marketing. Screw you naughty dog for lying to all of us and to you Sony for allowing them and yourself to do that. Now I did HIGHLY enjoy the combat and all the improvements that were made to it. It felt satisfying, brutal, and rewarding especially when sniping people with your bow. Presentation was amazing. I loved yara and lev and cheered for them to survive as long as possible. Honestly there were points I really loved the story and some of its wholesome moments. It’s just there are holes, glaring holes that smack you in the face and make you ask why. Many people may ask why I even gave it a 7 due to the political crap it pushed and to that, I honestly can only say I tried being as open as possible. I also was mixed on the story, even though I mainly listed negatives as I feel they need to be known, so it also had that. This is no where near the original, however, as I played that game for over 100+ hours and never got sick of it. Naughty dog, if you for some reason make a third one, take some advice from us fans that loved the first game and wanted this one to succeed so badly. Don’t load your game with politically motivated crap and maybe, just maybe, don’t kill off one of the best characters a company has ever made. (Yes I know that mean killing of Ellie at that point since they already messed up with Joel and then I’d just be laughing at that point because I’d join in dumping a fat zero on the game).
Gameplay, music, environments, artwork 10/10. The story pacing was horrible I hated or didn’t care about several characters or what happened to them except two, and they felt like a side show. Very disappointed.

Gorgeous visuals, smooth gameplay, well-crafted world... and a main character you can't emphatize with. A story that's driven only by revenge and nothing else... and that's a step back from the original, which had a HUGE HEART in the middle of it. Character progession is tangibile only on the skill trees, not in the development of the protagonist... TLOU2 is what the Lost Legacy was for the Uncharted series... a bitter reminder that the game industry works exactly like Hollywood.
Cheers from Russia. This game is amazing. Graphics, gameplay is awesome (especially at max/survival difficulties). I love the atmosphere and new locations as well. Yes, as a TLOU fan i was shocked and frustrated with SOME SCENARIO MOVES, but, at the end, i got it. Yes. This is game is almost a masterpiece, i would give it 9/10. Minus point for some agenda and some story desicions.
I found this game better than the first one. The gameplay is 10x better, the story is more impactful. Whether you hate it or love it you will not forget it. As for the characters, absolutely loved them. Dina, Lev, Jesse, Yara all amazing characters. Even Tommy is much better in this sequel. One thing that should be mentioned is the acting. Ashley Johnson, Troy Baker, Laura Bailey etc. They did an amazing job. It might be the best acting performances we've seen in a video game. The only comparable being RDR2, GOW 4, and Uncharted 4.
Bad game, joel died in a bad way.. Not hating because joel died, but the writing and scene from joel died not like arthur morgan.. Do not buy this game until discount under $20 So monotone, because in the first last of us, joel have ellie company, but in part 2, ellie is so boring.. Gameplay is okay, just okay..
This game has a lot going for it and a lot going against it. You have naughty dog doing what they do best and that’s gameplay, visuals, voice acting, movie like cutscenes with great mocap and character design at least in my opinion and the rest are facts honestly. But this story gets in the way of that because of the disorganization of who you play as and naughty dog made like the most Oscar bait game ever made. There’s a lot of points where they try to show off how cool the visuals are which I get but it happens way to often. Now I’ll start off with the disorganization first. By now I think everyone knows Joel dies in this game and it happens within the first two hours and I honestly thought it was done pretty well for how graphic and disturbing the torture was. But you play as Ellie for 10 hours after killing like Ellie does and for me I didn’t feel bad whatsoever. Worst I felt was when I was forced to kill any dog in the game. But after you play as Abby with a huge cut to basically meet back up to the end of the game and play the next 12 hours as her. For me I was so disinterested in Abby because of what she did to Joel and I just wanted Ellie to get vengeance. If anything it should’ve been switched because it makes no sense to feel for these characters that kill an important character and you don’t like them until 50% into the game. And at the end of abbys storyline you end up fighting Ellie in a very intense scenario that’s done really well but I didn’t want to win because i was still too attached to Ellie and honestly I think everyone thinks that. But instead you beat the crap out of Ellie and also stab her pregnant love interest which could’ve been good but naughty dog is trying so hard to make you feel something it ultimately resulted into disappointment. Plus I know there’s a group of people that hate the game because there’s a trans character in the game, it didn’t bother me really but I felt it was really on the nose and could’ve been done a lot better. The fact that no one says “trans” in the game is kind of nice but I honestly kind of find it hard to believe that anyone would really care what gender someone wanted to be in the post apocalyptic world. Like I would think people would care about ya know, like literally anything else going on but it is basically a cult that makes the character ostracized so idk. Plus could’ve been delve into deeper if they really wanted that to make sense, to me it just felt really on the surface and naughty dog just wanted to pretend this somehow isn’t just allyship on display. And that’s what I meant by Oscar bait. You can just feel someone saying “this is art” when either the random sex scene happens that could easily cut away or when the trans character appears and talks about the most surface level issue of being an outsider, or seeing that there’s a ton of diversity within the cast of characters throughout the game or whatever it is. As if something like Super Mario Odyssey isn't because it’s just some silly platformer that doesn’t deal with any dark themes and doesn't have these forward thinking ideas to put diverse characters in the game. But all of that aside, I would still say I liked the game and I’d still recommend it because the good outweighs the bad. If I could give this game a 7.5 I would because I feel that’s more appropriate of a score compared to an 8 or 7. And especially more accurate than people saying a 0-5. As if they somehow forgot how good the gameplay and everything else is other than the story. But overall, buy it when it goes on a decent sale. You don’t need to play it, but it’s still a recommendation none the less.
Started out okay, but quickly fell around the end until it just plummeted into a bad display of "revenge bad" despite the revenge being entirely justified and almost completed.
This game is absolutely terrible and unnecessary for the current climate. You make a hateful character, make her kill our favourite character, and then shame your fans for hating said character to be transphobic.
Instant delete after I finished it. It was nothing but a spit in the face to fans of the first game, and playing the game as the person who tortured and killed joel in front of ellie and Tommy (in the beginning of course) was straight disrespect and torture
Where do one begin to even describe this game. I hated how it made me feel, since I probably spent 5 hours of my 30 hour playtrough crying. It have some heart wrenching, heartwarming and all In all so many memorable emotional moments I will never forget. It’s been almost three weeks since I finished the game and I am daily analyzing and thinking about the date of characters, what was, what could have been and possible what still might be. It isn’t often I have been baffled and thrilled by a game quite like this. The last time was probably part 1, red dead redemption 1 or even back in MGS3. I will keep things short; Part 2 is a worthy and true sequel! Excellent stealth gameplay, fun set-pieces and explosive joy from start to finish. Wonderful graphics, acting, music and the feel of the world is far beyond any other experience out there these days. The story is emotional and you are right to hate some parts of it if you want. But believe me when I say that there are so much meaning and beauty in those moments you might hate and if you open your eyes and think about human motivation and the justification of making this sequel, it will all make perfect sense. This entire game is like a season of GOT, and then I’m talking about one of the food once. Do yourself a favor and buy this game. A true modern masterpiece.Say no more
I’m glad I didn’t give in to the sheep opinion of completely hating this game and calling it trash before it even came out. The leaks sounded worrying without context. But putting everything together with full 25-30 hour journey. Everything made sense. This is a powerful story. One that doesn’t hold your hand and does things just to conveniently make you happy by the end. This game is brutal and emotional, it challenges you through and through, and by the end I was fully satisfied with the story it told. I couldn’t have asked for anything more in a sequel. It stands tall right up there with the first game, and I truly mean that.

Gameplay, visuals and graphics are all 10/10, the story wasn’t good at all. Which was the best in the first part and all, I think I expected something better than this.

While this game MAY have decent gameplay (although it's just the same, actually less puzzles, as the first), what Naughty Dog and Sony did surrounding this game makes it a 0/10. Period. All of those 10/10 positive reviews have been PROVEN to be faked by bots. The long story about this game is DO NOT buy this game, DO NOT support Naughty Dog at all.
how poorly constructed the execution of the timid plot they chose for their story, which is revenge, which is also Number 1: The characters. The games first flaw is the inconsistencies of the characters we know, and their development being widely already explored and established.This game dismantles all of that, changing Joel into a clumsy gullible fool, as opposed to who he was in the first game. Joel's inability to trust people and their motives, are what kept him and his loved ones alive, he lived as well as he would die by the guidelines he set for himself in order to survive in a hostile world where anybody is susceptible to malevolence. This is seen practiced in Joel's and Ellie's journey across the country. In the 2nd game, Joel is transformed into somebody who is virtually unrecognizable by allowing his trust to put him and his brother in immediate danger, and this wasn't subtle in the least, not only did he agreed to follow Abby into her lodge where there were other people with motives unbeknownst to him but he didn't even question himself nor the assailants intentions, he acted through a persona that goes against everything he is. Furthermore, it just gets comical to the effect of even giving them his name and where they live. Ellie's demeanor is dubbed down as a linear character with no nuance or growth, she has a single narrative, and that is *Kill Abby* nothing else matters, and you see this unfolds as she mows down dozens of men and women with no hesitation in order to get what she wants, this also goes against Ellie's principles that are apparent in the first game as well. The rest of the cast serve no relevance to what is going on around them, they could've easily still made the game without the excess of characters, and it wouldn't have affected the game's main story at all. Abby has to be the worst written character in all of gaming history, she shows no regrets, not once does she reflect on her actions, I've seen enough dateline and crime shows to see that Abby shows every characteristics of a sociopath, lacking any empathy for the people she's killed, there's no relatable trait that makes me care for her as a person because she doesn't have any, and forcing the player to play as her for the entirety of the 2nd half of the game is unforgivable. Number 2: The story. The story in this game feels so redundant because it never gives the player the ability to sit and fathom what is going on, so the experience and the impact the game tries to express through its shock value, feels empty and drained of any context of what its trying to convey to the player, the message is drowned out by forced plot points that excruciatingly drags on just to arrive at no conclusion, the only saving grace the game's story had to cling on was the climax, and that was snuffed out by having Ellie save Abby's life (Her father's murderer and a sociopath) just to then let her walk away. The game lost it's inner core of what it was supposed to be about: THE **** ZOMBIES, in this game they were just there as props to serve a mundane and pointless narrative in revenge. Number 3: The politics. If you go back far enough, you'll see these subtle hints being expressed by the actions and words Niel has used, for instance: Neil Druckmann was doing a conference where he was suggesting that multiple gaming developers were sexist and part of the "problem" by allegedly monopolizing women's sensuality for profit. That alone gives you the impression of what Niel Druckmann assumes about the gaming community and developers of being a bunch of sexist pigs who looks at women no more than sexual objects for our desires and profits. He hired a transgendered individual because of his/her sexual identity and not because of his/her experience and performance, that is in itself the ideal irony in all of this, because what he assumes about the gaming community, is true of what HE IS, looking at people only through the lens of dirty politics and not for who they are as individuals, what only matters is what group they belong to. Number 4:The Controversies. Neil and naughty dog with sony, used a company called "Muso" to find and strike independent gaming journalist on youtube, for even muttering any hints at the game's leaks, multiple channels were susceptible in losing their careers over something so damn trivial, because Neil can't stand having dissonance being discussed about his overly pretentious game. I'll end with this: People loved The last of us because of how easy it was to relate to Joel and Ellie's story, the zombies were there for a purpose, everything and everyone in the game served a purpose and a meaning, and all of it was served masterfully as a complimentary to Joel's and Ellie's development as characters and their story. None of that is potrayed in the last of us 2.
The game looks great and is top notch when it comes to graphics. The mishandling of a character to put the spotlight on a forced agenda character or characters is a travesty and shame that we cant play as the character we really wanted to play with. The story pissed me off of the way a character was handled. The director just wanted a pat on the back from a small percentage of players. I like IGN Japan's review over the butt kissing IGN America review. The game isn't a masterpiece and i have no empathy for ABBY. Wanted to kill her at the beginning and the end. Its worth a rent but not purchase.
The last of Us 2 looks good has a great soundtrack and the level design is really good. The game has seen slight improvements. Nothing I would call a generational leap but it is definitely improved from the last game. The problem is the story is a big letdown and deviates from what made the first game great. Characters make dumb and laughable decisions throughout. The game relies heavily on shock value but not the kind that makes you feel emotional it is shock value that leaves you wondering what the developers and writers were thinking when they constructed this narrative. The ending is a joke and makes no sense. Over all very disappointed with the final product. If you must play this game because you are a huge fan of the original just wait for a sale or buy it used. Not worth $60 and has no replay value at all.

Worst Game of the generation.Period. Naughty Dog was one of those studios who created the best story driven game from The Last Of Us to Uncharted games. Now we have this Game. I don't care about agenda,politics,left ,right,diversity. I just want to play a good decent story driven game. The Last Of Us is Joel and Ellie,Without them There is no last of us. This game is just pure torture.BUT Voice Acting and graphics in this game is excellent and the music is absolute genius.Overall i would have given this 6/10 but it really made me depressed when i was playing the game. The naughty dog should not have made Abby as a playable character.She is not like-able at all .I just feel very sad for Ellie,she lost everything.It kinda funny that in the end there is a soundtrack which is beyond desolation. It sums up Ellie's life. YUP,its sad.TRUTH BE TOLD EVERYTHING IS GREAT EXCEPT FOR THE STORY. IT'S pure garbage,Trash,Poop.

From the beginning of the game Joel is hated for what he has done. They tried to make everyone that plays the game start hating Joel that when his death had come into the game nobody would mind, however due to the nature of the antagonist and how swiftly Joel was killed (and brutally) they make it impossible to think of the 2nd playable character Abby as an enjoyable time, instead it is a slog that drags on and on till near the end of the game, where the ending is neither great or interesting, a point to where I was lucky to buy the game at a low price 2nd hand, and yet I still feel like I had wasted my money.

Es el juego con el gameplay mas satisfactorio, divertido y emocionante. Su narrativa e historia es espectacular, si experimentas el juego de principio a fin la amaras. Se toma su tiempo para desarrollar a sus personajes y concluir de manera muy satisfactoria la historia. Sin duda solo a un retrogada intolerante podría ponerle peros a los personajes, además de las personas que ni lo jugaron por el fanatismo a otras compañias.
Visuals- better than the first game. Gameplay- About the same. Moving things around to get from place to place replaced with jump. Story- Pretty much uprooted the first game, put into a fire pit, and burned. The characters are turned 180 degrees and pretty much unnoticeable. Post apocalyptic doesn't mean anything in this game. It has gone from a game of survival in which you need to survive with wits into a revenge plot that makes characters unlikable to the point of setting down your controller and returning the game. I found no enjoyment playing this story. Collapse
The last of us part 2 e incrível como pode o ps4 ter tanto poder pra esse jogo
The first game makes you warm and give you hope; the second game give you shxt and make you angry. Revenge plot is far inferior and generic. And they are pushing a dangerous agenda pitifully. The gameplay is basically the first-game-polished, far not enough for a 7-year development time. Don't buy this if you enjoy the first game.
Neil Druckmann 下台好嗎 搞爛一款神作 要宣傳女權不要搞到遊戲上好嗎 滾去別的地方宣傳 SONY 更可悲 為了這種人買通告大媒體 現在還瘋狂刪負評 就別人來刷好評 真的是噁心
This is story game and main part of this game its a story!And story is boring.What about the game the last of us? the last of us is Joel and Ally! Why is this game bad?Because the autor hate this characters. In beginnigs of this game Joel will be killed by rat Abby when he save her from zombie...and Ally wants revenge. The first half of the game is a nice beautiful adventure of Ally and Dina. The gameplay is almost no different from the first part, new puzzles with a rope and glasses !! Wow is that all you came up with? the stealth curve is boring and not interesting and does not look like the E32019 gameplay.But then it gets worse and worse the gameplay for a new character degrades. They make us love Abby and forgive her, try to show that she is a good person in different aspects. I feel like the author says: "Love her !! and hate Ally".Hitler also created pictures and was an artist. Look he is good like Abby loves him right now!i dont wanna play by Abby !i dont wanna fight with Ally!I dont wanna kill Joel. And i dont wanna save Abby. Abby is the worst in this game.
I've been waiting for so many years! As a result, the worst game of the year .. In the game of politics, the hero is two-faced! It’s not worth spending your money on this slag.

i love the fact they are including people of different backgrounds, i just cant get behind a character that killed a character that we loved from the first game. the story was handled so very wrong. Look up ""Joel Deserved Better" - A Failure In Storytelling" by Joe, The Alternative Gamer. He can explain it better than i ever could. (and metacritic, how about u stop editing my review, 3 times i've had to fix it)
The last of us lost its essence with the ideal story that impressed everyone, but the second part became a purely commercial and marketing game, a cheap game centered on gays and feminism disgusting, I do not talk about graphics and gameplay they are good, but the story is the worst

meet zzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzzz
Es un juegazo, lastima que la gente ni siquiera se pasa el juego completo, la historia esta aceptable y la jugabilidad, cancion,,efectos,animaciones,fisicas es implemente increible
Это просто великолепная игра!!!!! Конечно не на 10, но из-за пидоров у которых даже нет playstation 4 игру блять критикуют. Сюжет потрясающий, правда жалко что Джоел умер(. Видно что naughty dog старались и вклали свою душу в эту игру. Лгбт повестка не такуж заметна. То что Элли лесбиянка это было понятно в прошлой части. Я думаю эта из-за того что она не может довериться Пацанам итд. Короче идите на хуй гомофобы.
Bad story bad ending bad plot the only good thing in the game is the gameplay and the graphics sometimes I felt like what i am doing here why i am in this place why i am in that place
O jogo divide opiniões porém me agradou muitíssimo, nos gráficos bem caprichados na nova jogabilidade e o enredo pode não ser melhor que o primeiro, mas conseguiu me despertar mais emoções minha nota é 8,5 mas como não há esse sistema para não ser injusto vou dar nota 9.


Честно на троечку.фанат первой части. Я не школьник уже давно что бы поддаваться убеждениям со стороны игрожура.и объективно, это-дорогая куча мала куда намешали все тренды политоты, с плохо поданным сюжетом завернутый в большой бюджет На троечку.
Simple.. it's the best game I've ever played so far. The game drives you in as if you were in it. It has that particular touch that makes you embody the characters. Graphics are the best in the history of videogames, gameplay is really decent and everyone knows it. The story??? Omg, I love this story too! The ending blew my mind. The story is very similar to what happens to the life of characters in The Walking Dead; it's the apocalipsis zombie what do you people expect??? things not always happen the way everybody wants and that is what I enjoyed about it, even if characters such as protagonist are to be finished off. Embrace it! Ioved Joel with the guitar! It's a 9 for me bec they killed Joel and it would be nice if they add multiplayer mode but gave it 10 to help the score against haters!
This game is dishonest and it appears that the head writer is psychotic if he thinks this is a good story. I seriously question the mental health of the writer who thinks this even passes as a morality play. It is akin to a sociopath that pretends to know human motivation. The fact that they got rid of the competent female writer to have some egocentric lunatic write this ham-fisted, heavy-handed tripe shows that this so called woke take is cynical and was handled by a true toxic male. This is the toxic masculinity that they often trot out we should avoid. If you want to have fun when you play a game, avoid this. Outlast handled torture and strife better. Dying light has better monsters. They ignored the story of trying to actually deal with the plague for this claptrap. I give it a 2 because it looks impressive enough. The mechanics are bland and you have absolutely zero agency with the two players. Think about it, this male 'feminist' takes away the agency of the wronged woman protagonist. What was this game made for, other than some grotesque circle jerk with the writer and a mirror? Avoid the game and play something better. After going over Ghost of Tshuahima it proves this game is not fun.
this game is trash, i can't believe this game was developed in 7 years, joel my beloved character, the symbol of the series was killed and humiliated by people, omg the story is so filthy and lousy, please dismiss the person who wrote this script, I love the last of us part 1 but part 2 has ruined all the good and legacy that part 1 left behind.
Been playing Naughty Dogs games since they began and have loved many especially the Uncharted series and TLOU. This was a game that was a no brainer that I was going to get Day 1 before seeing the leaks of the awful story, horribly misleading media and the criminal attacks on Youtubers by Sony/Naughty Dog. The antiquated game play, bland level design and grey world are not saved by good graphics, all AAA games are expected to have these. A game to wipe from my memory.
You read about story already and all this tolerance that flying in your face is annoying as F. If I could return this game like in Steam, I would return it in half an hour.
Holy god the story was so god awful I waited 7 years for this. I wanted to quit so many times though out the Abby line. Completely devoid of an interesting or satisfying plot. The graphics where okay and the gameplay was the same as always which does get old. Solid use of destroying all character development from the previous game and forgetting to develop characters in this one. I do not suggest buying this game if not only for the graphics
The game is great. the story is not what I expected, but it's great. the most importantly, the atmosphere must be the best atmosphere I've ever seen in a game.

For a Heavy story focused kind of game. Nothing to do with the graphics and game play. This game is some woke **** That the story is really **** I don’t care about what they tried to do, but the bull**** plot holes, and to do things just for shock value is embarrassing. Also a strong female character doesn’t need to look like the hulk. There should have never been a place for identity politics in the world of the last of us. People trying to survive from each other and from the clickers. No time for trying to figure out their gender and sex!
Um excelente game que superou as espectativas que já eram elevadas devido ao enorme sucesso do primeiro titulo. Uma obra que supera a difícil missão de ser melhor que seu antecessor
Линейный, скучный геймплей, игра совершенно не заслуживает такого огромного хайпа, потому что, повторюсь - обычная, линейная игра, лучше какой нибудь фильм посмотреть. Плюс ко всему - заявления разработчиков (и не только) о том, что это что-то великое - выглядят по меньшей мере СТРАННО, в 2020 году, в век великих игр в открытом мире с куда более увлектальным и проработанным сюжетом, с возможностью ВЫБОРА, который влияет на этот сюжет - заявлять, что их линейная, коридорная игра это что-то великое - САМООБЛИЗЫВАНИЕ и пренебрежение к игрокам.
O game, descontextualiza totalmente a história do primeiro game da franquia, tornando o jogo desinteressante para centenas de jogadores que vieram do primeiro game, atrás de uma imersão totalmente nova na história. Mecânicas, gráficos e aspectos técnicos são coisas bem trabalhadas, porém após a narrativa mal trabalhada, detalhes no jogo passam a ser coisas a serem observadas e não contempladas.
Naughty dog takes the characters into situations you may not feel comfortable with, but it’s a story that needed to be told from a creative visionary. The gameplay is also undeniably the perfect blend of Survival horror and action. It’s fast, fluid and intense with great level design meaning you’re constantly on the move during fights.
I am always impressed by how some people managed to take a chunk of gold and produce a piece of sh**. i mean it really takes some skill (or an idiot) to achieve that. Game is fine but the story not and this is a story game. PS metacritic if you change my score at least change the comment as well.

The game speaks for itself, graphics are one of the best of the generation, gameplay might be the best, sound effects and musics are on masterpiece level, but let me talk about the major point of the complaints, the story The writing is strong, the story is completely logical, but it's not the story you want it to be, it is dark, cruel, and sad. The story fits the series perfectly.
The best game on PS4. It's a masterpiece from beginning to end. This and God of War 2018 are the only two 10/10 games this generation. From gameplay to storytelling it is one absolute rollercoaster of emotions. One of the very best that I have ever played in my life! And yes, I played games like TW3 & Half-Life 2 and I still think that this game is the absolute best.
This game makes no sense, a mass murder (Ellie) forgives the person she hates most in the world, not going to happen.
If the story was good I’d give the game an 8. The gameplay has Slightly improved since part 1. Graphics are amazing. The story is awful though just being honest
An improvement over its predecessor on every front. Intense gameplay and beautiful visuals backed by an emotionally impactful plot that challenges the player in a way that other games rarely do.

A puro pendejo mollera sumida que le tiene miedo a los gays y a los trans, no le gusto el juego, seguro son esos gordos frikis barrosos que se la pasan todo el perro dia enfrente de la computadora viendo mamadas de otakus.






Sound 9/10 Story 0/10 Graphics 8/10 Characters 0/10 Gameplay 4/10 If you loved TLOU, don't play this sequel, save those 60 euros for cyberpunk 2077 or Ghost of Tsushima It is style until the last jedi, the story, the narrative, the plot, the script the characters do not make sense, the development of the characters is little or nothing, When the situation gets spicy, we have flashbacks that break the rhythm of the game. The game becomes boring, very repetitive more or less from the middle to the end especially the parts you play as abby, and a mechanic that I hate in video games; quick time events. And the only credible review from the video game press is IGN Japan when it says there are boring new characters. Naughty Dog tries to "subvert expectations" by creating a clash of forced ideology and politics. The last 12 hours are terribly boring, you just want to get to the end fast and kill the final boss, and refund the game in the store. The game fails from the start, Joel would never have trusted a stranger. Both Joel and his brother knew the Fireflies will be looking for him, or at least they should expect that after purging the whole building of Fireflies. But instead they get surrounded by armed strangers and they just gave out their real names like dummies. Like hi, my brother here, his name is JOEL. This game deserves a 3/10 maximum. The video game press and ND emphasize that the game is about revenge, but in the end that long-awaited revenge does not come, after killing everyone, you do not kill the "Villain", because in the last second you realized that "circle of revenge is bad" WTF?!!, an unsatisfactory anticlimactic ending, the ending is a **** cliche!!!!! The trailer of 09/24/19 is false, it makes us believe that the one who covers our mouth is Joel but no, surprise is jesse !! This should be able to be reported for misleading advertising. My disappointment is immeasurable and my day is ruined. Naughty Dog has made an effort so that the game is not fun it has succeeded. On a technical level it was more or less what was expected BUT the history is pure garbage. 0/10
trash game filled lgbtq garbage will never touch this game ever again. Neil drunkman and naughty dog killed this franchise and is in complete under the water. If there's a 3rd miss me! I won't be interested whatsoever. So I give this game's score a 0 I have never played a game that i hated my whole life before. This is no masterpiece or a game of the year its an L of the year.
Being one of the few people who didn't completely enjoy the first game, TLOU2 seems to fix the majority of the boring, repetitive gameplay issues. I think going into this having avoided all of the hype and spoilers was definitely beneficial to playing it and I thoroughly enjoyed the story. Although the game does drag on in the second half, the story rounds off in a nice way and I personally feel that it does the characters justice.
This game is breathtaking: the mechanics, the gameplay, the story, the graphics are all at the highest level. I'm absolutely sure Last of Us 2 is one of the best game of the generation. Naughty Dog is simply the greatest king in this industry. They always give it their all striving for the maximum. they make games with passion. not just for money like Ubisoft, Activision & EA. It should be a rule that Ps exclusive can only be valued with a Ps account because lot of braindead can write an opinion and user score doesen't make any sense anymore in lot of cases.
I didn’t like the game at all. I understand the story and the parallel they tried to draw between Abby and Joel at the end was a coin toss. Either way I’m not giving this a higher score because of how beautiful it is, I expected the game to look beautiful and violent. TLOU was always about the story and when you can’t deliver it, you lost.
After I saw the leaks and the released gameplay footage of the entire game of course it’s all just one big beautiful mess as expected. This is not the sequel we never needed. Then the final boss, I just stopped watching the video, no satisfying ending what so ever. I wish I could give the game a negative -10.0
Превосходная игра с завораживающим сюжетом. Как можно ее хейтит. На вкус и цвет конечно друзей нет, но всё же такому произведению ставить нули это бесчеловечно!)
Ótimo jogo História 10 Jogabilidade 10 Tudo 10/10 nesse jogão Só no PlayStation msm pra nós da ótimos jogos igual a esse, parabéns a #NaughtyDog pelo ótimo trabalho. #SonyWins
The Story is just bad there is no way to get around it. But the game-play is good if you liked the last one the game-play is about the same. I just cant relate to anyone in the story.
The Last of Us Part 2 is an absolute masterpiece worthy of its predecessor! Do not go by the fake reviews and play it for yourself before you judge it. Naughty dog couldve gone with a similar strategy with the first part and played safe but they took the risk and such new attempts must be appreciated and encouraged.


After playing for around 12 hours I can say it's a real slog to keep playing it. The game turned from its storytelling predecessor to a uncharted, tlou, cod hybrid. The graphics are pretty much the same as the first but the world is more open, it does suffer from lack of detail in most areas (especially the spore areas) and it struggles to stay 30 fps. Its very noticeable that it drops sub 20 fps, this caused me to get headaches. It also makes your ps4 sound like a jet engine. Even the UI got worse and the weapon upgrades, the lack of choice in skill upgrades. But the biggest issue is how bad the story is, they went from great story telling in the first game, to this shock value, agenda pushing garbage. All the character building is gone and its just action, explore, kill 50 people, add some bad story telling and repeat. I don't know if I can finish this trash game.

看到这样的用户评分我就放心了。垃圾游戏。顽皮狗和你的Sjw思想一起见鬼去吧！This game should be rated "D" for Disappointment of the year.


*Huge spoiler alert* This game made me feel so much, the beginning of the game was so well done. I cried my eyes out when I heard Ellie beg for Joel's live to be saved. It was such a powerful scene that no one wanted to happen, but it did. That's what makes it so strong especially killing of Joel. Throughout the whole game I felt the anger Ellie felt. I needed revenge on all of them. When we got to the part where we killed Nora and the square button popped up. I smiled and actually took my sweet time killing her. It was **** up but so well done. When we killed Owen and Mel and Ellie unzipped her jacket and saw that she was pregnant was insanely well made. Abby saved Lev at all cost and she came to the aquarium expecting her friends alive and well. But they were brutally murdered. I don't care which character experiences this but no one deserves that. Even though when I played as Ellie and killed them I loved it. It was great seeing the other side of the story. I get the hate for this game, I totally do. When we got near the ending and we had to hunt down Ellie as Abby I really wanted to stop. Even though I really liked Abby, but I like Ellie more. Then the most unexpected ending ever happened. We lived in a farmhouse with Dina's baby and I had to get the sheeps inside of the barn. However somehow everything reminded Ellie of Joel's death and I cried again when I had to run down those stairs in her hallucinations. The ending of the game is the only thing that I wish they changed. I hoped we actually had a choice to kill Abby and if you did. You'd just see her lifeless body with lev in the boat and realize what you've just done. While writing this the good ending is actually, leaving her alive. Abby did the same thing, she killed Joel but even after she did she still couldn't get her mind of her dead father. Killing him literally only made her life worse and that's what Ellie prevented by letting her go. Really powerful story. Gameplay: 9/10, combat sometimes feels a bit wonky but I haven't seen a game do it better. Graphics 10/10, phenomal graphics. Don't have anything to say about that MUSICCCCCCCCCCC: 1000/10 I can't explain how much I love the soundtrack, I played this game with all the sound options on 40/100 and music 100/100 and I recommend you do the same. Story, 9/10, they could've just made a generic. Joel and Ellie go on an adventure thing again. Which honestly would be just as good but this made it so much more unpredictable and powerful. the game for me is a 9.3/100 but im giving it a 10 because in no universe does this game deserve lower than a 7/10.
If the first part took heart with its plot, then the second is just a meaningless piece of code. Killing the main character, and then focusing the whole game on revenge - you have to be that scumbag. And make Joel the villain for saving Ellie - are you all right with your head? Or play the second half of the game as the killer? "10 out of 10". No thanks - I wasted my money.
If you haven't played the game, your opinion is invalid. If you think JoEl WoUlD NeVeR GiVe AwaY InFoRmAtIon... you either haven't played the game or you're just too brain dead and didn't pay attention to anything. If you think Abby is Trans... You most certainly haven't actually played the game. And If you think this game is simply saying "revenge bad" then it's VERY clear that you are too brain dead to comprehend anything past a surface level reading.
Maybe, the only flaw this game has is that at some point it feels a bit streched, but i didn't care at all because the combat section is great, the crafting is improved and i was busy taking all collectibles anyway, so yes a bit streched but i'll live with that. And it's not a "bad" ending, it's just an ending that you dind't like. I'm wondering in which way you'd expect Joel to die, just in a simple combat or by accident, impaled like in the first game? ND decided to do it in grand style, that certainly will be remembered in the industry. Overall the game is a step forward in ALL aspects from the first game
Amazing game. Had me on the edge of my seat the whole time. People review bombing this game without even playing it are ridiculous. Great game. Check it out for yourself.
Being a huge fan of the first game, I can honestly say I’ve never felt so betrayed by a sequel. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay is slightly better than the previous with new additions to help your survivability, but the story is the equivalent of a car crash. I saw all of the leaks before release and still thought that there was a chance that playing would change the context and perspective and I was correct. It changed it so negatively that I couldn’t look away as one of my favorite franchises was butchered before my eyes. Neil Druckmann stated that this game is about hate and I fully understand that now. I hated the game being leaked, I hate the direction they took the story, I hate the character decisions that seemed out of place, I hate the reviewers giving mysterious positive reviews claiming it’s a masterpiece and I hate myself for buying this game. One point for graphics and another for gameplay. Nothing else deserved it. Also, what kind of revenge story (which is played out already) ends with no revenge for the main character? And by main character, I’m referring to one of the two people we looked forward to playing as, not bland and boring Abby.
ewww dont buy this... buy ghost of tsushima. tlou 2 is a bad joke and theres no reason for this game even exist. Story is bad twitter fanfic and characters are joke. Not to mention that gameplay is kinda generic. Yes graphic is nice but that what you would expect from AAA game.
acabaram com a estória do jogo em nome de ideologia, por favor deixem os mundo dos games em paz, querem fazer propaganda forçada empurrando garganta abaixo de pessoas que não entendem nem o que é agenda politica, e apenas querem jogar, o que fizeram com os consumidores é de baixo nível para uma empresa que diz que é para todos só se esqueceram de quem pagam os salários deles, por favor vocês exigem respeito, mas não respeitam à ninguém agindo assim. lamentável.
The game begins to be boring in the second half, while playing for Abby. I was expecting another from the game. Open world is not open (center of Seattle). For me, the game ended on day three in Seattle for Ellie. Everything that happens after (Farm) is not even like The last of us. For me, 1 part remains the best.


I feel bullied by this game, disrespected as a fierce fan of the first TLOU. How could they spit on the characters we know and love in order to push some crappy woke agenda down our throats? The game looks decent from a technical point of view, but the story and the treatment of the characters make it nothing but a fresh masterfully polished turd.
Fue lo mejor de lo que esperaba para mi esta al mismo nivel que la 1 si no esta mas alto que la parte 1 a la gente ni le gusta mucho por que joel muere pero tienen que entender que la muerte de joel hizo mas fuerte a ellie

This is not what a sequel to The Last Of Us should have been. This is not right. There is truly nothing here more than agenda. Why would there be THIS many people upset over the game? The recent Final Fantasy 7 Remake quite literally split the fanbase in two, but look at the userscore... The writing in this game feels like a fan fic written by a secret third party, who knows nothing about writing for video games, let alone The Last Of Us, but was given a platform to push their agenda. The choices made by established characters completely goes against everything we know about them and what they've said or done before. Gameplay takes a backseat to all the agenda, especially when they have to get such Schindler's List-tier masterpiece lines like "bigot sandwich" across. Also thought it was a terrible design choice to have a guitar strumming minigame, to thematically tie with the world and characters, but no golf minigame. Oh, and what even happened with the whole infection/Ellie being immune? This is so obviously only written for one purpose: agenda.

One of the best games i have every played. I dont leave reviews but i know people will HATE BUT YOUR NOT STOPPING THIS GAME!
The gameplay was good the graphics were good but when it comes to story it's such a huge disappointment the way you introduced the new characters and forced us to love them even if they were bad people . Just wanna say The sequel was so bad
I don't have anything to complain about gameplay but in story, Oh boy.. so many plot holes and dumb decision made by characters especially at the start of the game, i can not believe what i've watched, near the end i was not emotional at all because game's story became so **** i was laughing instead UNBELIEVABLE
I understand why people give the game so much hate.But they can't understand that this shows reality. The Brutal way Joel is killed is not a problem. Because I know that if a apocalypse happens things like his death will happen. That's why I don't hate the game. It's brutal violence is needed to show reality - how cruel the real world is. And a message to all the people who say that the game is too much violent or brutal - just shut the **** up and stop crying. The world is no place filled with fairy tales. Life is harsh and hard. Especially during the apocalypse. So just Grow up and stop pretending to know everything, and that that your review is the right one. Because it is not. And about the game play. I think it is amazing. It just keeps everything from the first game that I loved. And improves it. Another message to all the people who say that the game play hasn't changed any better: it wouldn't be a good sequel if it changed the game play completely. It kept it the same and improve it. The gunplay is good. Thank God they didn't change it to be like CoD or fortnite or GTA5 just to satisfy whining fan boys like you. The game play isn't supposed to be like any of these I mentioned. It is supposed to be last of us game play. And this game keeps it very well. About the graphics... well.. They are impressive. Fenomenal even. And you who say that it has bad graphics... You are Dumb. Why don't who complain about the graphics make another game with better graphics if you know so much. Right you won't because you can't and you know it. All you can do is complain. So if you can't make anything better just do yourself a favor and stop whining. Last but not least to all you who say Tha are hardcore fans of the last of us and come here to complain about game play and graphics... YOU ARE NOT HARDCORE FANS. JUST GO TO HELL AND STOP WHINING. This game brings back nostalgia from the old last of us with its game play. If you do not appreciate that then you are not a hardcore fan.
One of the best pieces of art I've ever played, loved evey single bit of this game, and I truly felt the game got me trapped into it. If it doesn't win the GOTY, idk what will!
Graphics and sound:. TLOU2 has some of the best graphics and sound of any recent PS4 release. There's no denying that Naughty Dog pushed the PS4 hardware up to its limit to maximize the games visual and sensory stimulation so you see and feel engrossed in your environment. Gameplay: The gameplay of TLOU2 is serviceable. If you marathon both titles together, one will have a feeling of familiarity when jumping from one to the next, though I would argue that, much like Konami's Metal Gear Solid series experienced, any future titles should have a revamped control scheme developed to meet the demands of growth and development. Story: Story..... oh the story.... This will be THE most divisive story ever developed for the PS4. And players will be divided into 3 camps: 1) You think characters are disposable for plot purposes so you've limited your attachment to limit any emotional blow when they die or get injured. 2) You've been with the franchise since the games debut on the PS3, feel a connection with them, and will (rightly) be outraged when they meet their untimely end, get hurt, or endure bodily harm for the sake of being a plot device. 3) Feel indifferent because it's just a game title and you have little to no emotional investment in the game's universe. I won't go into plot spoilers themselves. Reason being there's enough ranting about that. However, I will question the motivation behind the development of this game. It's come to light that Naughty Dog intentionally substituted characters into game demos shown to the press for the expressed purpose of misleading them, so they would go back and report it, then we could switch out said characters to conceal divisive plot points. The city of Seattle was intentionally selected so they would have justification for their inclusion of LBGT+ paraphernalia (To be clear, I have NOTHING against the LBGT community. This is about intent, not inclusion or the removal of said inclusion). Not to mention every gaming journalist that received a review code was contract bound to ONLY talk about the Ellie chapter (hint) and was ONLY allowed to use media captures from 3 (THREE) specific sections of her chapter (which was also taken as misleading). And finally, the dark, brutal narrative that's given for the sake of plot convenience makes little sense and subjects the player to extended, almost torture pornish levels of "shock value" in a misguided effort to make you "hate" characters. I found it difficult to sympathize with most everything happening. It was like the Neil Druckmann was trying SO hard to be M. Night Shyamalan and include as many twists as he could but in the process out thought himself. And for what? Alienating 2/3 of your fanbase? What got me the most was a troubling scene that literally so graphic, so gory, so vicious, I physically got ill. It made me want to puke. And I enjoy horror, just not graphic gore of characters I'm supposed to sympathize with. tl;dr conclusion: We live in an age where games are streamed and playthroughs are uploaded to various sites: YouTube, Twitch, etc. If you're unsure and came here looking for something to sell you on this game, watch a playthrough. Just the first few hours. If it engages you, then you'll have your answer. If you're repulsed by what you see, there's your answer. But make this decision for yourself. There's a reason why the Critic Scores differ significantly from the user score. Hopefully this review helps you gain perspective on that.
Only because of the Graphics I don't give it a 0/10. The Rest was so awful. - The Story is a mess - The Gameplay is outdated - The Game is MUCH to long I'm glad to get at least 40 from 70€ for this Game back...
Waited 7 years for this game and ultimately it disappointed. Uninteresting characters, established characters that act completely different when they shouldn’t be. The gameplay of the game undermines the message it tries to convey, making the whole thing pointless. The “twist” doesn’t work because they completely failed at making you care about a certain character. Everything disappointed.
While I like to watch and play trash sometimes, this is below anyone with half a brain cell. Bad doesn't justify what this game is. It's just appalling. They will say this got review bombed... But how does that even make sense when we all knew no matter how good or bad this game was, millions were going to be playing it and watching it. These scores are legit and do justice for an awful game.
Why are you all waiting for some kind of game in your head? All I knew about the game was what was shown in the first trailer and I didn't try to figure out what would be in the game. And on this I got colossal impressions, I am absolutely satisfied.

I just want to start by saying i did not really enjoy this game but i can respect people that do and i understand why they do. I know im in the small minority of people that dislike this game in this reddit and I'm not a ND bootlicker or a hate trend follower. yes i finished the game. Before starting i have to clarify I don't care about race or sexuality, its sad i have to do this but as ive seen on all these subreddits people just blatantly calling people every phobic name in the book for voicing an opinion. For me personally, I felt shattered after finishing the game and not as in "It was an amazing 10/10" way but as in a"I wish this was never made because now i cant sleep" kind of way, TLOU came out when i was 13, It was a very sad time in my life as i had lost so many loved ones and i was really not in a good place, but with TLOU i could really connect to the characters and the world, in some sense, they felt like a family to me. I know its weird because they're not real but i felt like I've lost something that i never had, I feel a true sense of misery, some might say i hate the game because there is Women or because of lgbtq or that im stupid but the truth is, i had to force myself to finish the game, I didnt want to go forward because i knew what was at the end, some of you might say "Thats what ND wanted you to feel!" but in all honesty, i felt these things because the characters that i knew and loved that saved my life in a time of darkness were no longer themselves, they were no longer what made them great, many will ridicule me and put me down for this but as a person who has learnt a lot of morals and lessons from a video game, it hurts seeing it happen, some decisions and dialogues are so out of character it hurt to watch and it felt that the writers just made them say/do these things so the story kept moving forward, I just didnt want to play anymore, it wasnt the gore, or seeing Ellie become everything she hated, It was the lack of choice and the meaningless killing that amounted to nothing, I dont know if i will ever play this game again, it hurts just looking at the disk and seeing her face, i truly loved these characters and now i feel nothing, as if there is no hope. The game isnt a zero but it certainly isnt a ten. In my opinion the game is a reflection of this quote from Ellie. "...Okay..." 5.3/10 I really wanted to love this game so badly but i just can't, I wish i had never seen it, I wish it had never been made. The ending, (though many people will surely post their many metaphorical assumptions about it) sealed the deal for me. And so I've dug two graves, one grave for TLOU2 and the other for me. For now, I dont know what to do, i feel an insatiable sense of sadness on coming. Ill leave these final quotes that i remember everyday from Ellie. "Everyone I Have Cared For Has Either Died Or Left Me. Everyone…Except For You." "Let's See, Scorpions Are Pretty Creepy. Ummm, Being By Myself. I'm Scared Of Ending Up Alone. What About You?"
This game is a scam. Wow! Talk about lying about Joel being in the game. They destroyed him and his character in the worst way possible. The game is only 20 hours long and no one wins in the story. There is no end game. Everyone loses. Don't believe these credit reviews. They were bought. This game has no multiplayer either. It's so depressing how they slapped the fan base and destroyed the TLOU name.
А теперь по факту, игра очень хороша! С оценкой критиков полностью согласен! А теперь от себя! Сюжет 8, и только по тому что я ждал чего то другого! Атмосфера однозначно 10!!! Геймплей 9, и только потому что я больше играю на ПК, и геймпад мне тяжеловато даётся! Подача сюжета 10, я получил огромное удовольствие, увидев историю с двух сторон! Графика 9, и то потому что не позволило железо! Оптимизация идеально 10! Музыка, чего то не хватило 8! В итоге от меня: 9,2! Naughty Dog желаю успехов!!! И жду новых шедевров!!! P.S. Огромное спасибо за игру, и за ваш тяжёлый труд!

I hate this game, the graphics in the game are quite nice, the movement of the characters is quite smooth (one of the smoothest moving games I've ever played), gameplay like part 1 has nothing improved, it's very boring. gameplay, plot making players extremely uncomfortable. It should not be like this.

The world and graphics are amazing. Amazing acting. Amazing soundtrack. Same gameplay more or less like first game but still awesome nonetheless. BUT the story is so inconsistent, it's unbelievable : Joel and Tommy would NEVER walk into a room with a bunch of unknown people like that, Joel walking right in the middle like ?!?!?!? Defeats the purpose of the character narrative from the first game. Even if he softened up and all, he'd be soft to all familiar people (Jackson; people he knows) and even if it's a blizzard or w/e he'd still be cautious. And when Ellie goes through the door to save him, Manny doesn't let Jordan kick her more then at the end he tries to shoot her, like what ?!?!?! And Mel who's "traumatized" from torturing Joel is like "we shouldn't leave any loose ends" lol. HOW CAN A PREGNANT WOMAN CLIMB ROPES , BALANCE HERSELF ON SMALL POLES, JUMP FROM STUPID HEIGHTS, FIGHTS AND EXPLOSIONS AND CAR CRASHES,.. ?!?! And the Seraphites, Lev and Yara talkin casually as if they're not part of that cult and growing up scarred and all, whaaaat?! And whenever an enemy dies "marco, omar, jhonny, nooo" shoulda given me the option to write letters to their families too, and bury them and all too, who cares, one twice, not evvveerry encounter, I'll never be attached to them nor care ^oh look we gave different names to every npc^ and most definitely wouldn't care about Abby even if you make me play her 20 more hours, it feels so forced and so inconsistent and pathetic. So many more stuff is unfathomable. Anyways,tbh most fun I had is "killing myself as Abby OVER AND OVER AND OVER AND OVER AGAIN" especially vs Ellie, god those death animations felt so good. Very poor pacing. Game tries to disorient me and force me to try to even care about badly written characters. Story feels so lacking and disespectful to its amazing first game.Trash writing. Pathetic.
Amazing gameplay and visuals, big step up from the original. Honestly incredible what Naughty Dog has been able to deliver on the PS4. Worth a play through for sure
Are professional game reviewers not to be trusted anymore? Sony's long awaited sequel does not live up to expectations; but it is worst than that. the gaming community, the large TLOUS 1 fan base have been betrayed by both the game developers (the 30% percent who remained at ND) and the so called professional gaming journalists. The Last of us part 2 character development and story telling fails in many ways to elevate the game to were it should be, not even the beautiful animations and the upgraded game play could save the wreck ship from sinking in the bottom of the real gamers garbage bin.
played & reviewed on PS4 Pro. The Last of Us 2 is beautiful game visually. It pushes the PS4 to the limit & i was amazed how developers can develop a visually stunning games near the end of PS4 cycle. All of this has only to be go down with the most pity revenge story which takes away the legacy of this great title. Pros: - Amazing visuals - Great Sounds - realistic post apocalyptic environment Cons: - BAD Story - Unlikable Characters - Wacky Controls - Glitchy/Stupid AI - Frame Rate can drop heavily specially during combats - No control Over Main Character Derision - BAD Ending/Conclusion Last comment: this could be have been a real potential for GOTY if the story set right. I give it 5/10. I hope Naughty Dog End this series & focus on new Project after they butchered most beloved game.

Just finished the game yesterday, the game is alright but doesn’t hit the heights the first one did with the story. Gameplay and visuals are absolutely amazing, however they are brought down by the story. I had a big problem with the ending especially on how Ellie didn’t kill Abby at the end. She has killed hundreds of human enemies throughout the game including all of Abby’s Friends who were involved with killing Joel, without any question, but she can’t kill the person that tortured and killed Joel. This just doesn’t make sense to me personally. The whole reason she sets out on this journey after the traumatic event happens at the beginning of the game is to kill Abby along with everyone involved in killing Joel that day to get revenge for Joel. After personally coming to really like Joel’s character in the first game I also feel he was done dirty massively in this one and wasn’t given justice. With all these new characters in this game as well, I only really came to like one of them which was Jesse. The rest were pretty mediocre and not really super likeable. The story still does have It’s good parts though especially in more of the first half of the game when you play as Ellie and hunt down and kill those involved with Joels death.


It was very bad story Its not the same story as the last of us 1 I fell very bad and I feel I lost my money for nothing just for graphics
Petty revenge plot with spontaneous forgiveness at the end after hundred killings. Below average. False advertising with Joel. His 3d model was changed from promo materials basically it was implied he should've been for a while but killed off after 3 hours and all conversations of JoelElly is poorly written flashbacks. DinaElly relationship shown ok and sometimes great but at the end it's soap opera. Graphics and acting is great. Don't care about gameplay and was here for continuation of THE story. But got just A story. 4 golf clubs out of 10 spits on the grave of IP.

this game may have polished animations, art and music the rest of the game falls short of its predecessor. The gameplay is almost identical to it's original with a few added improvements. But due to the games longer length the gameplay wears out it's welcome. The story took Risks which in the end didn't pay off for the damage it has done. With poor pacing mixed in with constant flashbacks, hand fisted themes + messages and a forgettable side characters mixed with unlikeable main ones the game and themes fall flat on what the director intended.
В общем,я считаю,что naughty dog стоит продавать игру тем,кого она считает своей целевой аудиторией.) Я в упор не пойму,почему рынок до сих пор эту проблему не урегулировал,с каких пор у нас решает меньшинство? Почему игры делают в угоду тем,кого очень мало и кто в игры не играет? Я очень надеюсь,что игра получит наихудшие оценки,дабы студия задумалась о выбранном курсе. Игру к покупке категорически не советую. Да и сам Дракман говорил,что можно и не покупать) Выполним его желание!
Dumpster fire of a game. Bad story, bad characters. Forced agenda. Superman 64 is more fun than this garbage.
Naughty Dog(or we can say Neil Druckman) is too proud to tell a story well. A good story is not rare. But how to tell it well，it's the key point. 7 years ago, Naughty Dog give us a perfect answer. But now, they lost the talent.





A franchise ruined. The first was amazing, but this...this aint it. Simply put, the game is not worth playing it. Why? the awful story. I cannot understand why this was made, who thought it was a good ideas to put this out, and who approved it? Naughty Dog may want to do some major changes in their offices/upper management. Worst of all this game does even have multiplayer. The first had an awsome multiplayer, this game doesnt offer anything.

The Last of Us is my all time favorite game. The sequel ruins everything I loved about the original. I have no interest playing as the character that kills off the main characters of the original game. I destroyed my copy after completing the game. Worst money ever spent.

the last of us two is a horrible game that pushed politics and things that shouldn't be in games it also had a horrible story and killed off the character that made the game great
lets just take a moment here and pay respect to druckman who managed to ruin something that millions of people loved for almost a decade. but to be honest they tried to say everyone is a villian in someone else's story and thats a lot of potesial for a masterpiece but ther ruined every aspect of it.im not mad about playin abby cuz she killed joel but and i actualy understand why she did it.but for people that lived with these characters this long its not acceptable.Its like someone murders your father and expect's you to underestand him cuz no matter what the reason is you wanna **** him up.
Graphics are the only upside of this game. The expert storytelling from the first game is gone and the game makes it clear those who loved the first game are not welcome or needed. The game feels like it was written by a California college's first-year creative writing class. It is all so forced and shoved down the player's throats. Then there's the message of 'killing is bad,' but you kill all the time, making the message redundant. It makes the game unfun and annoying to play. If you're looking for a game to play to get away from the slog of real life, this is the worst choice available. If you must play it, buy it used so you can return it.
the game is not bad but it is not a masterpiece, the first one was much much better (story or gameplay) what happens to a certain character could have been avoided it was useless and naugthy dog playing badly are games for this part,being forced to play the killer of a certain character it was necessarily not the best way to attract players to play your games, if could have played Abby in another context without coming to the end of a revenge for an old spaghetti movie that leads to nothing at the end the story would have been different and i think all gamer would have seen the arrival of new characters like Abby better, and joel could have survived without having to fight, for a main character history they could have started in another way without having to kill like a vulgar dog, the gameplay was good anyway and the functions for disabled person it deserves one more point





Y'all obviously aren't playing the same game as me. I've never had a video game come in and gutpunched my emotions so many times in so many subtle (or overt) ways
I dont understand, why a lot people critics the story.. they wanted to show you, two sides of the ich person.. two reason of what they doing a long of the story.. we cant call them vilants ! Experience was breathtaking

A beautiful one of the best stories ive seen in games, with next gen graphics, animations and lighting that ive never seen before. This is truly a game of a generation that you need to experience
Firstly, the game progressively and completely breaks my heart. Secondly, the Used Game Shop refused to buy my copy of TLOU2. The game play is OK, the story is trasher than trash.
Only 3 months ago I played bought the last of us part 1,i blown away with the story graphics which was made 7 years back may be 10 years. I love to play part 2 as I already playing it, as far it is good & am loving it.
This game… It managed to broke me and at the same time give reasons to live. I literally cried in the end because I really love Ellie and Joel and it hurts to see what happened to them. Their relationship meant so much to me and now they are just gone… I understand why Joel did what he did in part 1. Ellie was all he had, so he couldn't lost her like he lost Sarah. So he saved her. Killed for that. But you know what? I don't care. Because... I would do exactly the same thing. A little girl was alive. Even if it was just for a few years, she was happy. So for me, it was all worth it. I wanted Abby to be dead. But then Ellie would lost herself and I don’t want that for her. Joel wouldn’t want that for her. He always protected her from this cruel world and wanted her to stay that happy sarcastic kid. She gave him a light that he thought was gone forever. She gave that light to me, I learnt to enjoy small things, just to be happy with what I have. Cause one day it may just not be here anymore. TLoU showed me how brutal people can be. And how they can change. Once, at the end of the fight, there was one women left unarmed. She begged for mercy. But i killed her. I knew that if I let her live, she would shoot me in the back. Just one death of hundreds, but it really got me. It felt real. Like I really killed someone. At that moment I realised that people in that world don’t always want to be cruel. It’s like “kill or be killed”, you just don’t really have a choice. I will never forgive Abby, but I understand why she did what she did. So as I understand Ellie. She couldn’t let it go. She knew that everything is gone too far, but just couldn’t stop. And I’m happy that, eventually, she could. This is amazing game. I’ve never experienced anything like that. After part 2 I replayed the first game and all those moments with Joel, every their dialogue, it felt so nice seeing them together again, but also sad, cause I know how it’s gonna end…These games taught me to appreciate life and see the light even if I feel lost and empty in this **** dark around. So thanks, Naughty Dog, for giving me that.
I was so interested for this game. I am a huge fan of this game characters. But it completely disappointed me. Didn’t expect this kind of cheap story. Ellie is completely a boring character but she was not in the first game. Joel is dead & you have to play with abby. I mean seriously???
i hate this game its one of the worst games i have ever played they kill off the mc early on and the ending is bs and pointless **** this game and **** naughty dog.
It's a bad game well made. A game driven by privileged viewpoint of a western liberal about what is good and what is bad, with contrived character development and plot holes. No character has survived intact from the first game, everyone now is a **** **** apart from the new Abby person who is oddly enough a train of the redemption arc of the game. Good luck sitting through endless walking simulation and tear-jerking cutscenes between ultraviolent ruthless combat sections that dissonate with the message of the game that "violence bad"


Complete and utter garbage. The story is abysmal. The characters are horrid. It is almost as if naughty dog hated the characters from the first game and thus decided to go with a soft reboot. The controls are clunky. The story has no flow. Characters make decisions that no normal person would make. I waited 7 years for this filth. I should have expected as much with reported 70% of developers quitting nd during the making of this garbage.
This game is just stupid, no logical consequences Try to shock you whatever it costs .This is just another 2020 disaster and reveal of Naughty Dog real face (Maybe just Druckman face)
I refused to believe the spoilers and make my own decision. This is the first review I am doing on Metacritic because of how lackluster this game is in comparison to the previous. Graphics and Mechanics on the game were fantastic... there are sections of the game where the graphics are absolutely phenomenal, and it is seriously impressive how far and how detailed this franchise has come. That being said, the story... I cannot believe that the characters developed throughout the previous game have been thrown to the wayside and dumped on like they have. I am not going to spoil this because there is enough spoilers in this thread, but seriously... I've seen better plot lines in Dynasty Warriors games. Playing as Abby feels 100% forced and you have to conduct things as Abby that are forced. I didn't even like Abby yet I am being forced to carry out actions against characters I enjoyed playing and want to succeed. It's like watching Rob Zombies 31 and not caring if any of the protagonists die because you cannot stand any of them. I'd rather go back to playing the first game and enjoy the development versus playing this again. I literally hated the forced narrative and essentially destroying characters I built in the previous game. Yuck
I am saddened by the death of Joel. Gameplay is good but over sexualised. What were the developers thinking?

I waited this game for more than 5 years , and i’m disappointed as much as it is possible! Music and visual part is good , but story and “new wave interpretation” of old characters are awful!

I hate to say this but after I finish the game I feel like it’s such a waste of time. The story telling is worst to be TLOU game. No impact no anything only WTF. Play this **** at your own risk.

I really tried to like the game because i am a big fan of the series but i dont like the story at all and the gameplay is almost exactly the same as the last of us part 1. For me the worst part was the ending, I get you wanted us to learn something from this but I really wanted to see Abby dead and I cant believe Ellie killed so many people just so sche can leave Abby alive. This is just stupid.The only thing that prevented a 1/10 were the graphics. I am going to give it to my friends so they dont have to waste their money on it.
The Gameplay is great but the story is awful and generic "oh you killed Joel i must track down everyone one at a time and go through a lot of situations just to kill a single person" it's like farcry 5 for example you gotta kill them off one at a time and the false advertising oh man, they really tried their best too make it look like Dina died and we were playing with Joel trying too avenge Dina

I played the first game almost once every year, and i liked the the second one even more. The story of the second one is written in a lot less accessible way to most people. You have to read between the lines and make your own conclusions by connecting the dots by using common knowledge and being aware to how realistic characters would react to many different types of hardships, whereas with the first game it was a more direct and literal narrative approach. In the first game anything that the characters thought and/or felt was easily noticeable and was layed out right in front of you. There's nothing wrong with that kind of story telling at all. But it is much more of a challenge, both for the writers and the players, to have a story told in a more complex and nuanced manner when it comes to the development of the characters. Unfortunately most people weren't able to accept that a story that didn't turn out to be the one THEY wanted it to be, could still be just as good of a story at the end. And the ones who were able to accept it and still didn't like it probably do actually have valid reasons for it. Unfortunately those people are rare and their legitimate criticisms have been lost in a sea of ignorance due to the fact that the majority blindly closed themselves off from giving the game any chance whatsoever months before the game was even released. All the people i've heard saying they hated the game also had the game spoiled for them through leaks. Very unfortunate if you ask me since i firmly believe they've robbed themselves of an experience that could've possibly been a much better one than with the first game. Because it sure as hell was for me. Did joel deserve better? Yes and no For us as the player he surely did because of the connection we had with him from the first game. In the grand scheme of things, he got what he deserved if you look at it from any other perspective outside of our own. And to the people who say that joel did deserve a more respectful way to die in an absolute literal sense. I want you to consider this. If joel had died in an act of heroism as most people wish he would have, would you have gotten as angry as you did now? No you wouldn't. Abby didn't just kill joel, he put him down as if he was a rabid dog. And it truly sucked...and it made us absolutely furious with abby. But that's the point. The player's hatred is what fuels our motivation to avenge him. That is good story telling. Period. But this doesn't mean this was a story about revenge. Because it absolutely was not. More on that later. And the people who say that joel introducing himself to strangers is uncharacteristic of him, maybe you should pay a little more attention to the actual dialog. It wasn't joel who initially introduced himself to abby's group. It was tommy. And no i'm not talking about the scene where he got shot in the leg. Before that when abby, joel and tommy were escaping from the horde, right before they got onto the horses, tommy introduced himself and joel to abby by name. Not joel. This was done in an effort to calm abby down as she was visibly distressed which was a liability. After finding out who tommy and joel were, abby lured them to her groups hideout. Now, as for people calling this a revenge story and saying that there's no real dilemma present in the narrative, think again. There might not be a moral dilemma present like in the first game, but there is an emotional one. And is drives the entire narrative of the game. Some might think that this emotional dilemma is ellie's thirst for vengeance, but that's not the one. I'm talking about the dilemma of forgiving an atrocious act committed by someone. And yet again, if you're thinking i'm referring to ellie forgiving abby, you'd be wrong once more. Because ellie never forgave abby, even at the end. No, instead she forgave joel. Which she wasn't able to do before the very ending of the game. This is why we get to see the last conversation ellie and joel had where ellie stated that she didn't know if she would ever be able to forgive joel, but she would like to try. Now because of this ellie also carries an immense amount of guilt with her since the last thing she told joel was that she didn't know if she could ever forgive him. This guilt fuels her inability to forgive joel, which in turn fuels her guilt, and so on and so on... The tragedy of this all is the fact ellie didnt see what we saw when during her last conversation with joel. Because after she left, joel was visably relieved. That's the tragedy. Joel was contempt with the way things were, while ellie feels guilt because she think she let joel die thinking that she hated him. People say the writing is lazy? I say everyone else is too lazy to attempt to actually understand the writing. And for what reason? Because their favorite character was killed off. Nothing more nothing less.
Terrible game, the plot is really bad. However, the game looks really good and the detail level is amazing. Unfortunately this is not enough to make this a good game. Not worth it.
The graphics of the game looks insanely good and the attachment to details is mind blowing. It’s fun to explore all the locations and learn something new about this world. The gameplay is only okay, nothing new and nothing bad about it. The game has some flashbacks to the first game. They are very interesting and work very well. That’s all the positive I can say about the game. Most of the characters behaves like the world is fine and the apocalypse is not a big problem. Some of the characters are very unbelievable and bad written. You can feel the political agenda in every second of interaction with this character. I didn’t like the story of the game. There are many sad and intensive moments but overall I just didn’t care. What they did to Joel is bull***t. I can’t imagine, that anyone who played the first game would feel okay with it. So the story gets 0 Points, it’s nothing like the story of the first game. Overall I think the game is okay for people who didn’t play the first game, although they wouldn’t understand many of the little details. I didn’t enjoy the game, especially when it forced me to play as Abby for many hours, I hated it. The exploration of the world was fun and I enjoyed the graphics and all the little details. But the story and the characters killed the game for me, so I don’t recommend it to the fans of the first game.
Don't waste you money for this trash. Let's pretend the game only have part 1 and this part 2 not exist. This is an absolute disrespect to the first game


Stick with the original and forget all about this. Yeah, cool graphics.... but that´s it. Me, I want my games politics and woke agenda free. We already have enough of this in the real world. Save your money for better games, don´t encourage companies like "Naughty Dog" that just want to pander to the woke crowd. Disgusting.
Where do I even start? Is it with the emptiness and despair i feel for the sad attempt at a deep game with no real depth? Let me say this, graphically this game is a 10/10 and I mean every bit of that, they brought out the big guns for that. Sounds are on f-ing point. I cannot get over how well done those 2 areas of this are. Shout out to every single voice actor in this or person/s providing solid motion capture. People look and feel real, but that's where the positive factors end. Sadly. The game play feels exactly like the previous entry with a few polishes to movement, but not much else. Gun play is ok, not perfect, hand to hand is as well. Overall it works so, there's that. Combat tends to get very tedious and repetitious, if you're tired don't play this game, you'll fall asleep. One new feature is you can jump now. Ok I guess, so now they've traded tedious dumpster and ladder "puzzles" for some rope and a jump button. Too bad I couldn't climb high, use the rope and jump. As Abby. Would have given some justice. I wasn't expecting to be forced to play as Abby AKA She Man Woman Strong, for as long as they had us. I wanted it to be a refreshing change, spoiler, it was not. By the time I got control of her all I felt for her was disgust and hatred. So much so that I could only wait until I was collected. I don't care about you Abby. I don't care about your dead dad, I don't care about your lame friends. I don't f-ing care, die in a fire. See normally I don't mind a character change, as such a switch up of characters can help freshen a game and get me hooked even further. No this certainly wasn't the case. Let me end this portion of the review with this and no more than this. It's not what you did, that angers me so. It's how you went about explaining it. The story feels so utterly rushed and forced that I had more fun yawning than following the repeated theme of ReVeNgE bAd. Ellie has become a giant C. Abby is a home wrecking hypocrite on steroids that 90% of us hate. Lev is trans because. I dunno why that's important but they say it is so I guess it is. Very proper of you ND, clap clap, so woke, clap clap, so deep, clap clap. Joel was laughably stupid, which we know him not to be, ya know from YEARS of survival previously established in TLOU 1. Naughty Dog had a golden goose in that, for reasons unknown they then beat it to death with a golf club to have a quick meal. With regards to Abby and her massive gains. Let me be crystal f-ing clear here. You do not just work out to get that way. You have to diet properly, proper nutrition is key. This is supposed to be an established apocalypse where a lot of things are very scarce and hard to come by. So you mean to tell me her group powered her up Altered Beast style, but only her? Oh ok. Makes. Perfect. Sense. SMDH. There are strong female characters out there, both in shape and backstory. Some real and proper depth that make me want to see the journey through, Abby however, is strong for the sake of being strong and she is deep because Neil thinks she is. She is written to be a Mary Sue this game caters to. She gets hers, she gets the world. Our Ellie is to be made example of. I didn't enjoy watching Naughty Dog rape her, and yes, that's what they did. They raped her character and Joel's and through Joel, Tommy. As far as the story goes? I've read pop-up books with more depth. I once "accidentally" lit my ankle on fire, I had more fun putting the fire out than playing through this train wreck of a game. Overall this game was ok at best. Some will love it, most will hate it. I give it a 3. 1 point in graphics, 1 point for sound, 1 point for accessibility options. Bravo for the intentional mis-marketing of this game. You got away with murder ND. I hope you step on a lego.

This is a 6.5/10 game. I felt like I was playing the second half of the game as a filler. The story was pretty dry tbh since this is a story driven game. Can't wait for the multiplayer on this game though.
As a avid fan of Naughty Dog earlier releases, despite the leaks I was still hoping that no matter what's in the leaks, this game is still going to be something special. After all there is no other studio that can tell story the way ND does, right? I'm probably one of many people that during the game came to conclusion that creators wanted you to suffer. They drag you though horrendous, emotionally draining gaming experience. Game is designed to make you miserable and there were moments when I was considering just quitting it. Beloved characters from part one are nowhere to be found. Joel is an old, sad, beaten dog full of guilt. Ellie is completely different person that treats Joel like a dog. There is a cast of new completely irrelevant, forgettable characters that I could not care less about. Story is full of inconsistencies and plot holes. Writing can only be compared to what those two clowns did to GOT season 8. Let's not forget super important sex scene that was so crucial to find it's way into this game.Scene that was so gross I could not watch it. Dude f*****g dude named Abby with herculean body and semi female face. Druckmann managed to destroy everything that fans loved from part one, leaving me devastated and heart broken. He killed Joel, forced me to play half of the game as his killer trying to convince me that I should like that character. Story does not provide any profound message just a mess of unfinished plots, irrational decisions. I was left with the feeling of confusion and emptiness after watching with bleeding heart final moments of a biggest looser of the story, emotionally and physically devastated girl named Ellie. I cannot comprehend what was Druckmanns motivation to destroy something so beautiful and unique that was enjoyed and loved by millions of fans around the world. To make fans suffer to intentionally cause them pain. I would like to unsee it unplay it , pretend that it never happened. I feel sorry for developers, programmers, artists etc who put so much work and heart to make this game look like it is. Visually this game is stunning. As a story driven game none of this efforts could save it unfortunately. Graphics, music, game play mechanics 10/10 Story 0/10
Well,iam really big fan of the first one the last of us,but part 2 is really bad, gameplay is great but story is pure trash,i give tlou part 2 6/10 and only for gameplay,details and graphic. Story is 1/10 and the one is only becouse flashbacks with joel,ellie and tommy.

I give it 0 cuz the overall gameplay and graphics details are stunning. But the narrative is just.. No just no, We as fans open minded about it but you messed the story

Game story is terrible, the graphics and animations are very good, but they are not worth it in the end. I feel like this entire franchise has been ruined by this release, also I feel like Naughty Dog falsely advertised what the story is going to about, that's why I'm giving it a 4.


Its a masterpiece and a lot of you dont understand the potential of this game and mostly the ending i feel bad for you guys im sorry and to those who get it more ppl like us!
I will keep it short. The Last of us Part 2 is easily one of the best 10 Games ive ever played in my life. The Gameplay is awesome. The stealth is fun, combat brutal and exploring the beautiful apocalyptic world just exciting. Its full of details. The game is absolutely elite when it comes to graphics, sound and animations. And all that on a 8 year old console. I like the story and the great written characters. All the 26 Hours i played were exciting. Guys. Dont listen to the People who hate it and the ones who overhype it extremely. Just play it and make your own opinion. For me a 10 out of 10. Simply a masterpiece. Thanks to all people at naughty dog for working so many hours. Put your heart and soul into this games. THANK YOU !
Save your money. I did, and I'm so happy I can pre order good games now. All the leaks and spoilers are true. All the hate this game is getting is deserved.




Total trash... I would say the graphics are this game’s only saving grace, but even would be a lie... At first glance the graphics look good. Upon further inspection however, you’ll find that while the game does have good animations (I’ll give it that) the GI is a baked solution, that honestly looks dated. Speaking of dated, the polygon count/detail in The Last of Us Part 2 looks like it’s straight out of 2013. It really looks like a PS3 game wearing a current generation veneer.

Edit 2: I have just finished the game I thought it was very good, but understand why some people are upset the ending makes sense, in my opinion, but isn't what some people wanted. I would recommend playing this game, but be aware it's not a happy game and not really an adventure it's melancholy, if not straight up depressing. I don't feel like it was bitter sweet, like the first, and I doubt I can play through it again for a while if at all. I think the reason I liked it and others didn't was because I was able to empathize with a a character others could not. I can't fault them for that either. Edit 1: TLDR: Still very enjoyable. the rating I should give it is a 9, but I won't to offset the abundance of 0s I'm now at a little over 10 hours I think this game feels very much like the first. Some of the other reviews I saw pointed that out too. They seem to point to this as a negative, but I disagree. The first game was extraordinary, and I think this sequel continues this. It is visually beautiful and the dynamic between Ellie and Dina is enjoyable. It's different than that of the First, since the relationship to Ellie is very different. The story is still engaging. I was at the edge of my seat at a few points. I do have a few issues however, there have been a few visual glitches and the game crashed once, which takes away enough enjoyment that I should take away a point. The only reason I am not is the excess of overly negative ratings. I can understand distaste for the story, but I don't think that is really why it is being barraged. Unless the story is so uninspired later I can't see any major complaints with the story. Sure a revenge plot can be called cliche, but there is enough of a hero's journey to enjoy. TLDR: So far a very fun game I've put in 2 hours and 30 minutes so far, so this rating may be subject to change, but I really don't see what people are complaining about. So far I'm invested in the story. One could argue that this could be a bias carried over due to falling in love with the characters in the original that caused this investment, but I am invested nonetheless. So far it feels like the Winter section of the original game in atmosphere, both physically and mentally.
Idk what some of these rating are about? My take is I have been waiting years for this game. Yes, you n Ed to play the first game or it to all into place. The story was great and seen lots of comments on how gameplay was garbage, but it’s not. Play this **** on survival mode then you will change your mind. Always play onhard to-get the full experience. People disagree because they always have any more nothing ever be good enough. Do you know how long it takes to create a video game? Most people probably ave it the score because it wasn’t open world. So, yes I can agree with that it was linear, but the gameplay field was rather large in Some areas. Overall I thought gameplay was great no bugs found and Scenery was remarkable
It's a huge slap on the face for anyone who enjoyed TLOU. I consider it the worst disappointment in gaming history. If you don't care at all about the story, then maybe you could enjoy the combat and the world of the game. However, if you care about the story, which is what should've made this game special in the first place, then you should probably avoid it. I'm deeply hurt after seeing how this game turned out to be after 7 years of anticipation.
Тлоу 2 уж слишком сильно играет на моих фанатских чуствах и первые 15 часов вообще шикарные были, особенно когда были всякие флешбеки с маленькой Элли, и со всеми этими мелками отсылочками к первой части, но вторая половина, она для меня была очень протеричивой, персонажем Эбби я так в итоге и не смог проникнуться и мне во многом показалась эта часть игры филерной, хотя я понимаю зачем и почему она делалась. В итоге сюжет он мне понравился, я погрустил и посмеялся во многих моментах, но до первой части ему очень далеко, но и понятно что вряд ли бы он до первой части дотянуть. Технический игра сделана шикарно, графика и анимации просто лучшие на пс4 для меня, гемплей хоть он концептуально простой, но засчет всех этих анимации и как ощущается удары, стрельба, он мне приносил удовольствие даже на ng+. К этой части у меня к ноти догам вообще претензий нету и просто удивляешься как они все так классно делают. В итоге для меня игра заочная игра года, хоть первую часть игра и не смогла перебить.
Maybe its because i avoid promotional material for a game I'm already going to buy, or because I don't care about diversity, or because i wasn't ever that attached to my namesake from the first game (he was objectively a bad guy right?), but whatever the case, i loved Part 2. Visually, its stunning. The gameplay is less combat focused this time around. There is far more exploration. i appreciated this more than i thought i would, simply because the detail and variety in the world was far greater than maybe any game I've ever played. It never felt like the developers took a shortcut, as so many other AAA developers often do. it felt that they had taken an almost obsessive degree of care in bringing this world to life. I think the balance between combat, stealth, slow paced exploration, cinematic set pieces and narrative, is maybe perfect. Regarding the narrative, which seems to have provoked a great deal of controversy, its not perfect. It seems Naughty Dog maybe tried to do too much as part of the narrative. A lot of it felt patched together. Its far from bad however. In fact, i think that its intention to reinforce that these characters, as interesting and relatable as they are, are essentially killing machines, feels like a continuation of point it makes at the end of the first game. One theme among those who dislike the game, is that they don't appreciate the depressing tone, but were we really meant to end the original feeling happy? Did we feel that the right choices were made by Joel; the character we're supposed to control? Should Ellie and Joel be anything like the people they were following the events of Part 1? Like the first game, we are led to believe that the choices being made and deaths that are occurring are worthwhile in order to survive, when in reality, we're killing all of these people without there being a worthwhile ending. Unlike the first the game, Part 2 is incredibly upfront about that fact, making it clear early, with *that moment*. The post-apocalyptic world is not forgiving. The human psyche is unpredictable and even nonsensical. The Last of Us Part 2 is thematically built around these two points with far greater confidence than Part 1, and it makes for one of the best games I've ever played.
This a true masterpiece really can't describe or say about it the gameplay the story and characters and writing and actors just on points feels this game really next Gen
First of all let me say this people.Stop being butthurt over a VIDEO GAME if you don't like it great move on with your life. I enjoyed the game and in my opinion This game is fantastic great story, gameplay and mechanics. It's better than the original. Don't believe the negativity. If you read alot of these comments they don't make sense. Like how this is boring and a walking simulator but people continue to praise games like Death stranding and A Plague Tale Innocence. Also the Last of us was never some love story it's about tragedy. Have you guys played the first game almost everyone ellie or joel meets dies.Also people play Spiderman ps4. peter had a similar choice to save his aunt but choose to save the world. THAT'S WHAT HEROES DO..
An impressive technical display crudely bolted to a trainwreck of a story. The developers are obviously huge fans of the "cinéma du corps" scene, which focuses on assaulting cinematography, extreme violence, and despair. I appreciate the fact that they tried to make a videogame like that, but in order to do that successfully you need to make the audience relate to the character's motivations and their decisions every step of the way. Unfortunately, they failed completely. Character decisions are nonsensical and the ending is unwarranted to the point of being borderline offensive. It's still an enjoyable, pretty and highly atmospheric game though, so if you are into that it might be worth your time.
Naughty Dog treated the original characters terribly. Too many social politics involved. Any social politics is too much. Just make genuine characters and don’t sacrifice characters for political agendas like Disney has done with Star Wars and the original trilogy Star Wars and prequel trilogy Star Wars characters. This is pretty much The Last Jedi all over again. Smh. The way I rate out of 10 is, 5/10 is I don’t really like it or dislike it. 0/10 is the worst possible thing. 10/10 is the absolute best possible thing. This game gets a 2 from me. I really hate it, could even be 1/10. Accounting for gameplay I might would give it a 3/10, but because what matters most in a game like this is the story, it gets a 2/10 from me.
Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!
The gameplay is incredibly addicting, maybe the most action packed gameplay imo, keeps you on your toes and the graphics are absolutely stunning and immersive. The attention to even the most minuscule details rivals that of RDR2. In terms of storyline, there are memorable moments and emotionally heavy at times. I personally really enjoyed the entirety of the game but I will say you need an open mind to truly grasp what the writers are trying to convey in the message of this game. My main issue with the storyline: I did feel as though characters introduced were not as gravitating or compelling as the characters from the previous game such as Bill/Tess/Sam. While many found the game to be controversial, I do feel as though you need to experience this game to formulate your own opinion. Even if you don’t vibe with the storyline, it’s undeniably an entertaining and beautiful game that raises the bar for future games out there. A definite contender for Game of The Year.
After 7 years of waiting totally disappointed, it isn't the game I dreamed about, the story feels unfinished feels like a teenager TV drama (like riverdale or something like that), worthless it had a Lot of plot holes. the gameplay is ok until you play with Abby then is messy and broken, Graphs are awesome.

I’ve been gaming since 1998, and I’ve got to say, this is the single greatest game I have EVER played. The graphics, the gameplay, the fluidity of animations, the polish, the storytelling, and the emotional impact are second to none. Might be too dark and emotionally heavy for some of y'all (made my cry like a lil **** and made me wanna stare out a window on a rainy day for hours), but it’s an experience I will forever recommend, and one I believe every gamer should play in their lifetime. It’s a next-gen game on a 7 year old piece of hardware. I think it’s worth mentioning that I’m a big horror fan, and the reason why I couldn’t give the first TLOU a perfect score is because for something that was described to me as a survival horror, there really wasn’t much horror. But this one has levels that rank near the top of my list for scariest gaming moments in gaming, and I’ve played damn near all of ‘em. Major props, Naughty Dog, y’all don’t miss.
I will make this a non-spoiler review, and I actually have almost finished the game. I want to give my specific perspective of where I am coming from, so you truly know I am not a BOT or some kind of review troll. I'm just a normal gamer that loved the first game, and wants to review the second one now. Me: I am a female gamer, and I greatly support LGBT/trans rights and have no issues at all with any of that kind of stuff in any game, so I want to be very clear about that point. Maybe others overly like or dislike the game because of this kind of thing, but I'm only discussing the game in as objective a way as possible. I would have given the first game a 9/10, I was not really into the game play a ton, but the story totally sucked me in and I fell in love with the two main characters. Now, let's talk about TLOU2. The game play feels about the same to me, it doesn't seem to have evolved all that much, but it was certainly good enough I think for most people. But I want to just list pros and cons of this game... PROS: The graphics are beautiful to me. I really enjoyed just exploring the world. Some of the visceral fighting is a little too violent for my taste, but I think it was pretty intense in a good way at times. I also generally enjoyed a lot of the music, and the game feels very polished with no bugs. I love a lot of the level designs, and had fun in both the more linear parts and when you had a little more freedom CONS: It has to be the story. It's not about specific characters and moments on their own, it's the overall tone and theme of the narrative. I know some people will rail on specific things, but I can probably tough it out and accept any one bad scene if the overall story is still good. But it wasn't. In short, I fell out of love with Ellie and never fell in love with any other character at all. The narrative is too simplistic to me compared to the nuance and subtle undertones of the first game. I feel like this story could have been told - and has been already - in so many games, shows, and movies, whereas the first game felt very unique in how the specific narrative tied together. I am really shocked the writing is this poor, it's really a huge letdown for me both in terms of plot holes and just general dialogue, etc. I feel like the first game was at a level like a real written novel of high quality and this one is more over the top pulp fiction comic book. I felt so many emotions during the first game, I felt almost nothing this time around. It just felt too over the top and bleak in a way that didn't ever connect with me. I think the Schindler's List comparison I have heard is a very poor one because in that movie I constantly felt empathy, pain, and raw emotion constantly but in this game I just felt numb to the violence and felt almost nothing emotionally. They didn't build the characters well enough to ever really care about them, and then once they start acting out, it just doesn't connect. Also, maybe the pure violence appeals more to men but for me it took away from the narrative. I think a 4/10 is a fair score given everything I experienced. I still support a lot of what I think the game was trying to do, but it just didn't tell a good story. And that's true no matter what specific scene or situation someone wants to talk about -- on the macro level, the writing brings down the game.
If you remember Alan Wake - the game with barely passable gameplay, but a vivid and captivating story. Tlou2 is basically Alan Wake but if it was written by 13 y.o. 2 points for the artists' work
Whiny kids that complain about the story like sad teenage girls crying because their idol didn't marry them. This is the gaming community right now. Anyway game is 10/10, surpasses TLOU1 in every single aspect.
Феминистический выб док, заточенный под обиженных школьниц из твиттера. 99.999 процентов из них даже играть в эту игру не будут. Специально зашел в эту помойку чтобы поставить 0, но сюжет отменный, поэтому ставлю 2
WOW, everything still looks the same. This game just comes down to character development , story and emotions. I just did not see it in this game, how i saw it on part one. If you want to take out a legend/lovable character in the game you do it by story telling. Its like pretending it to be a Metal Gear Game and solid snake is dead early in the game.. Just saying...but you get what I am saying. I hope yah do....If you want to send kill off a character, do it in a better way than just whatever I just play. the story was everywhere the new character was just pointless with no character development. Why play them , why not play the main cast who made this game great.

I'm not going to ruin this for anyone with spoilers, but I am highly upset with the direction the story took. I already knew some of what was going to happen from the spoilers but I was really upset when I realized I was mislead and lied to by the naughty dog. The trailers post fake cutscenes misrepresenting things that happen. The story is ludicrous and incomplete. It is all over the place. Horrible. Do not recommend.
Neil Druckman really destroyed this game by plaguing it with politics and his personal views. What makes it worse is that he killed off onenof the best characters in Playstation's history. I'm giving this game a score of one just for the graphics, as those are pretty good, but that's about it.
“Lets make Abby (Random Character) kill Joel in the beginning of the game then make players Play as Abby and let her play with dogs and bring her past and make her spare Ellie so people can sympathize and forcibly like her” What the Actual f were you thinking????

If I knew I would be playing a new character maybe I would rate this game differently. Game is beautiful and well directed. However, for me it is a spin off. I have waited fir sequel.
This really was not a good game it was really horrible it had bad controls joel dies in the first 2 hours and you play as her killer and guess what Ellie can kill hundreds of people but in the ending she saves abby,gets her fingers chopped off and then let's abby leave I'm not giving this game 0 because the only thing good about this game is the graphics
This game would be amazing if they just let Joel live for like 80-90% of the game, I only enjoy playing the flashbacks and the short time Joel is alive befor he get Mario Golfed. You can get same reaction from killing a puppy, I really don't understand the way they took out joel. Did they really think people would like it this way? Also way to many plot holes and no character really had any goals with there lifes more then to go full rampage dafuq?
The gameplay is good, similar to the first game, simple but effective. What it lacks is the story. Bad pacing, new characters shoved in and not developed enough to have the players feel emotionally attached and constant gameplay padding. Abby in particular, If she would have been introduced more slowly, building her towards her killing Joel, with the player having to do the job after you have played with her for enough time to start appreciate the character, it would have been much better. Instead we have a messy start that sets her as a villain while spending the rest of the game using cheap methods to try and make you like her. Meanwhile dehumanizing Ellie. In the end you don't feel anything for either one of them. Another glaring weak point is the longevity, the game could have lasted half the 30 hours it lasts and it would have been better, too much gameplay padding in a game that doesn't shine for combat mechanics.
I’m gonna cut this short, because you probably feel the same way I do. The graphics and sound are good, not as good as they showed earlier and compared to the first game which came out 7 years ago, but still good for a game. The characters and story are pitifully bad. So bad that I can’t stomach talking more about the subject before seeing red and losing my **** I don’t mind main characters dying or whatever, when done well, it works. But this isn’t anywhere near well. Far from it. New characters that they try to shove down my throat are badly done fan fic quality trash. Don’t get me started on the Neil Druckmann insert sex scene. 2020 continues to be an abomination on all fronts. Oh and one last thing, all the 10/10 reviews showed me that 95% of the game journalist sites are either bought out or wouldn’t know a perfect game if it came and bit them on their ass. Either way, massive hit to their credit. Massive hit to gaming. What a **** show this is guys. Shame.
I think some people owe Naughty Dog an apology because this game is freaking amazing! Yes joel dies, I hated that, but you still play as him throughout the game but in the past. I dont see why people tripped so hard. I think this game could have been an uncharted lost legacy game and neil should have wrote a better story to keep joel alive so the series can strive and continue its glory. Done after this great game with naughty dog. I wouldn't want to play another last of us game.
gameplay and graphics are good but the story and characters .... its trash/garbage ! abby character is terrible game force you to play half of the game as that freak on steroid ! female like that would NEVER have exist in word like that no food people eating other people and she looks more buff then Kraots WTF ?!!!! Jole is NOBODY in this game Druckmann spit on him literally and figuratively ! he hate Joel thats why he murder him that way ! lgbtq and sj psycho propaganda ! lazy writing like bigot sandwiches or who are you ? guess ! WTF ! Halley Gross one of the writers say in an interview "the thing that Neal care about is honoring Ellie and Joel specifically and their journey together" lies after lies and false advertising ! the ending is even more terrible ! but NOTHING is more disturbing than abby sex scene.... beyond disgusting ! 7 years for NOTHING !

The Last Of Us Part II is an amazing and beautiful journey while deadly as you move on. The story is great, (not perfect), however the gameplay was MUAH. The combat is just GREAT, every time I deal that finishing blow with a baseball bat or pipe I yell. The immersion is just great, the game is awesome. Definitely a GOTY contender and possible winner! Ignore the low rating cuz their just haters trying to do something. HOWEVER, if you are not ok with seeing limbs getting shot off, blown up, etc, this game may not be for it as it is VERY violent. ND made a great game, and a GOTY winner.
1 point gives to the amazing graphic, -9 points give to the terrible story. This game makes me feel sick after I beat it, really really uncomfortable. I don’t think that should be what games are made for. A game made for total political propaganda. This time Naughty Dog has really disappointed us as gamers, they not only provided this mess to us, but also sadly destroyed the first TLOUS, so that’s what you get... 1 point. Really really disappointing! A total trash!



This game has legit the worst writing I have ever seen in a gaming industry and Abby is one of the worst if not the worst character ever. Why the hell would you ever force players to play as her/him? I dont give a damn about her/his story. The ending of this game does not make any sense. Plot armors + holes everywhere
A disgusting sequel soaked in bile to the fans. I was waiting for this game, but I got the patient’s nonsense, where one of the main characters is brutally killed, and the main character forgives it. Thanks for spitting in a soul
It is better the the first! This is the last time I trust user reviews on this site. I was surprised how wrong they were. Its clear theres 2 sides who are angry: metacritic deleting reviews AND people who are just immature and havent given the story a chance. Btw Abby is not a trans. Not that it matters but theres so many false information out there. This game is NoT a 10 but not a 0 either. The story is great. Its meaningful and the plot unravels in an exciting way. The graphics are good but I dont score it an 8 for that. I mainly think it was worth it. One of my favs for this gen. The envirobment and their puzzlish design are the main reason I enjoyed the gameplay. Its a decent game.
It's a shame hackers leaked the story. I went in blind and completely loved it... one of the best games I've played this year and even better than the first. There are sections which felt straight up like they came out of a horror film... it was intense. I really liked the characters both new and old and felt they expanded on the world in some very interesting ways. It felt like they mixed uncharted 4 with the last of us part 1. There are some great action setpieces which really helps break up the pace. There are parts where I felt like I was spending too much time stealthily taking down enemies and scavenging for supplies but before long I was outrunning clickers and or watching a cutscene. Loading times are quite short, there was hardly any pop in or framerate issues. The game ran really smoothly. The sound design in this game is from another world... it's unreal... sometimes I shot an enemy and they'd lie there screaming for help. Or I might cut someone's throat and then i'd hear them choking on their own blood... it was horrible but really helped create the sense that this world is brutal. Brutal is a word which defines this game. Some parts were hard to play through. I found myself shouting at my tv towards the end. Overall it's just an unforgettable experience and one which you shouldn't miss out on. also I hope metacritic goes through and trims out some of these troll reviews. Right now the user score is way too low. The game has been out for like four days and according to psn only 7.7% of players have finished it so many people here (many of them on the very day the game released) have given it a zero. I imagine a lot of this is down to bots as well. Just play the game yourself and you'll see it's something special :).

Cadê o jogo, só tem partes desnecessárias, tudo para uma narrativa ideológica, esqueceram de fazer o jogo. Não gaste seu dinheiro ou compre em promoção ou algo do tipo, assista no YouTube mesmo são 11 horas de filme ruim mesmo.
This game is a = The Last Jedi simulator.. - This game is a = Subvert Badly All Expectations simulator... - This game is a = Guitar Hero but Minus 2 Fingers simulator.. - It is advised not to buy it!

I have NO idea why other reviews are so low. My guess is they take ONE negative element from the game and score the ENTIRETY of the game so low, that it raises eyebrows to the people who have never played it. The negative element of the game is apparently the story. There are a few instances in the story that don’t appeal to hardcore fanboys and fangirls of the first game. However, that’s the way the story is told, and who are WE, the players, to decide what the story should be? In life itself, things don’t always go our way in our own story, so why should that be in a video game? With that being said, the only real part of the story I will have to discredit is the ending. It feels empty and leaves a lot more to be desired. In fact, if they could chop off about two hours of gameplay from the end, I would have happily given the game a score of 10 out of 10. The graphics are immensely gorgeous, and very convincing. Shooting enemies and blowing chunks of gore off the bodies are incredibly satisfying. The infected, with a lot of the same types of infected, are just as frightening or more frightening as the previous game. The expressions and emotions that the characters convey are absolutely realistic. This game does not deserve the score that it’s been getting from other critics. So I will give it a solid 9 out of 10. If you are unsure about buying this game, just buy it! You will not be doing yourself any form of disservice.
Лучшая игра , в которую я играл! Гениальная работа проделанная разработчиками! Отличная графика, сюжет, раскрытие персонажей! Не желею потраченного времени и огромное количество эмоций!

This game is immeasurably taxing on the player’s soul. Gameplay is perfect, & the story takes some impossible risks that require an open-minded approach to pay off for the gamer. Overall, this game was beautifully made & the story succeeds.
In my opinion this is a wonderful game. In addition to beautiful graphics and gameplay, the game has a lot of meaning and a very complex plot. This game is about people, not about individual characters. A game about one of us, the last of us. I believe that every fan of the first part should play this game, go through and relive the whole story from beginning to end. After going through the whole plot, a strange feeling remained inside me, it is difficult to describe it in words, you need to feel it yourself.
A superb realization of the paths the first game set out....Superb game. A must play. Please ignore any anti SJW reviews. Most bad reviews haven't complete the game or even played a minute of it. Completed it this morning and it's the best thing I've played in 34 years over been gaming
I can't deny that I was moved by this game. It is brilliant in its use of narrative perspective that can only be done in gaming. And I can't deny that ND's got some BALLS in what they did. And the environment is some of the best graphics I've seen in my life so far. The acting is superb. By the end, I was definitely shook. With all of that being said, after reflection, I also can't deny that the criticism against the game has validity. There are ways this story could've been better told. But you know, we're not the ones making the game. Kudos to ND for sticking to their guns and taking bold choices. At the same time, ND did lose some fans... I'm just happy we have this game to discuss over so passionately.
It's by no means a perfect game, but I appreciate that this isn't simply the hero's journey. It looks great on the PS4, but will probably be super-slick on the PS5.

The storing telling perspective of this game is very lousy. Joel even dies in around 1 hour of play. Many parts of its campaign are throw to the table as a puzzle, in which the player is forced to constantly endure flashbacks... Its story is simply disgusting with regard to narrative quality as a whole!

Do you call this peace of s*it game I like the first game but this shame on the studio They kill tthey kill Joel by that stupid way
My only problem with this game is the fact that tralier is way off,other than that still a master piece
An interesting second chapter to follow up what is one of my favorite games of all time. All of the characters were compelling and kept me interested, even as the story tool dark twist and turns.


Es un juegazo, 10 de 10, solo el final no es muy bueno, pero lo demás como ningún otro juego
I don't think a "perfect" game will ever exist, but this is as close as a game could ever get! The vast environment, graphics, soundtrack, combat style and gameplay, the crafting, the story, the voice acting!!.. Everything about this game is just top tier. I'm glad ND didn't go full "fan service" regarding the story, otherwise we could have had just a "mediocre" narration, and a mediocre narration is truly the least thing you could say about this game honestly. This game sets a new bar in gaming in terms of narrative context, and while "gamers" are still complaining about how ND delivered the story, i'm sure that the majority of developers will try to reach and imitate what ND just did. And of course, this will easily be GOTY.
I have just finished the game and from my point of view it has been a very disappointing experience and I really don't care about a next game. Focusing on secondary pointles, bland characters ( Lev and Yara for example ) just to make a point, instead of telling a good story. Also the relation between Diana and Ellie, which is central to the game, seems artificial, it is just there, with no explanation why do they like each other then they just do, there is no development, the 2 characters have no chemistry at all. As a story driven game it fails and it is sad. I won't even talk about Joel, it is ok to do what you want with a character but it could have been done in a better and more respectful way, it was just cheap shock and lazy writting (best example to compare with is SWTLJ) Unfortunatelly this game has entered the club of soulless entertainment media like the new Star Wars Trilogy, Marvel Movies, Season 8 of GOT, HBO Watchmen etc. What can I say it is just a game, even if we are disappointed there is no reason to linger, we should enjoy life more and be more careful when listening when someone tells us what to like or to buy. P.S: sorry for spelling mistakes, English is not my native language.
Only dumb people give this game a 0. You let emotions distract you. This is really the finest crafted game i have played story-wise. Way more ambitious and grand than the first outing. Also it has the most incredible level design i have experienced in a game. Especially during the Abby missions. It´s dark, grim and demanding. You spend plenty of time in dark places and the flashlight you have is very well used this time. The story would probably disappoint many i am sure, but on a technical viewpoint, this game is fantastic. It is obvious that tons of work has been made on every little detail on the level designs. It has been 7 very long years well spent, and it shows. It was a deep, evolving, emotional and brutal journey. This is probably the most realistic post-apocalyptic setting there is. There is no happiness or optimism in a time set like TLOU universe. The ONLY downside is the pacing that can be slow in certain parts, and that is the only reason it misses the 10/10 from me. The are certain times during your exploring when you pretty much DO just that, Exploring and pacing around for long stretches before you even encounter an item even. Some areas seems dead certain places. Level Design: 10 Graphics 9.5 Controls: 9 Story: 8 Music: 10
The game is honestly really good. I liked it the first time and I’m liking it even more the second. The only real flaws I can agree with is the pacing. But it’s the same in the first one so what’s the difference. It’s like that in almost every video game. There are long gaps of action and story telling. But it’s not enough to not not like it. It’s such a complex game. I’ve never felt so challenged, excited, uncomfortable (violence and forced decisions) and so emotional so much, if at all ever in a video game. And for that I give mad respect. Don’t believe the hype. The game is really **** good and intense. I’m completely satisfied with the whole thing and I hope there’s a 3. I’d say in all honesty the game is about a 8.5/10. But I’ll say 10 to help shut up the people who are crying over a video game. Like the world isn’t already in chaos let’s cry and throw a fit because things didn’t go your way. Pu**ies.
So far its the best game. The writer is very smart till a point where he controls your emotions toward any character! Gameplay + graphics + sound effects are insane. Definitely game of the year.
In my opinion was a really good game, people hates it because don't like the story... but the technical? Is a masterpiece.


This game is a masterpiece in every aspect, gameplay the IA I've never seen an IA this complicated and dedicated, a massive narrative with hard themes, Naughty Dog is one of the most talented Software house, speriamo la prossima IP naughty dog sia Bella quanto questa

es un juegazo lo único malo es la muerte de Joel pero el resto es un juego increíble

From a fan of the first part, this game is strange. Good graphics and gameplay, but some bugs and strange narrative. The character development of the first part is destroyed, and the game just tries to make you upset. See, first game had a tough story but enjoyable, this is just a mess. Naughty Dog should hire more workers instead of doing crunch... but now is late for this game. What a pitty.
-This game is basically a movie, since it has very good graphics & it is extremely linear. -Its gameplay is basically the same as the title released in 2013, but the inclusion Jump, Prone & Dodge, but some enemy attacks are undodgeable. -Its AI is basically the same as in 2013, which again means lots of dumm dumm NPCs, whether they are allies or enemies, which easily breaks the inmersion for the player with respect to the survival or the action in it. -But its worst thing in question.. is its WRITING or STORYTELLING perspective, which is simply full of PLOT HOLES & moments which are completely devoid of any logic or common sense.. that causes many of its main characters to look like a bunch of simpletons or imbeciles, & this terrible WRITING also affects its ENDING.. which is nothing more than a MASSIVE LETDOWN.. basically imagine a John Wick killing all the characters that get in his way, when John is trying to kill the killer of his dog, but that at the end.. John decides to forgive the killer of his dog.. because he just conveniently have a flashback about his dog...

Шедевр,просто шедевр,от ЛГБТ только слова,не более.Не слушайте дурачков и покупайте
Сюжет у данной игры на голову выше всех тех проектов которые я видел до этого
One of the best games I have ever played, the story is extremely challenging and takes a lot of risks. It is a very mature game, if you are expecting a simple feel good romp then maybe look elsewhere. Don't listen to all the children trying to ruin the game for other people because they are immature/homophobic. Honestly I think a lot of my fellow reviewers fundamentally do not understand the concept of character development. The following quote sums it up. "Maybe the real snowflakes are the gamers we met along the way"
Joel dies terrible sequel..what a waste of money............................
"Мое разочарование неизмеримо, и мой день разрушен. Я ждал 5 лет, чтобы сыграть в это, и они дали мне ужасное вступление и **** конец, я просто хочу забыть об этой игре." ---Эти слова хорошо подходят
It would be an understatement to say this is a disappointment. The first game is hands down the best narrative driven video game I have ever played. IMO the first one was so loved because of the writing, characters, decision making was all perfect coupled with great atmosphere and good gameplay. If you liked the first one because of the characters, story and writing. You will be just as disappointed as me. If you liked the first one because of the atmosphere and gameplay you will like this game. But for me this game was a hard pile to swallow after the first 2 hours. I don't love the first one because of its slightly above average gameplay but because the characters and writing brought out so much emotion into the game something that no other narrative driven game has done for me. Overall the game looks great, has slightly improved gameplay and great atmosphere but other than that its a let down. Nothing in this game to set it apart from other narrative games so overall rating slightly below average rating because of the disappointment. And it just adds insult to injury when It took me 15 mins to think of a better direction to take it in and one that I believe all the fans would be happy with.
The best game I've played. The gameplay is amazing, the graphics and game design on top. The plot - I have not seen so many emotions in any game! Most of those who rated it low simply watched the passage on YouTube, rather than playing. And this is a big difference. It is a pity that you can’t erase your memory and go through again and experience the same emotions. In which game can you sing "take on me" a-ha?
This game is a fricking masterpiece, it has so bad reviews because people bombed this site with bad rewiews on first day when they didnt even play the game
Graphics: 10/10, nothing much to say Gameplay slightly improved (not much) from the first, still 10/10 Combat style: absolutely brutal in a good way: 10/10 Soundtrack 10/10 Story, controvesial.. i still have to make my mind, but hats off to ND for taking this huge risk and not making a "simple" linear storyline like in the first game (yes you heard me, the story of a single dad losing his kid and then getting attached to another little girl is not THAT original, y'know). But i was glued to the screen the entire time and i'm ready for a second playthrough, vote 8/10 P.s. giving 10 because of the trollers who didn't play the game and review bombers
Not as amazing as the first one, but still many great new characters, and the game treats every returning character with great respect and makes them feel even more lifelike than the first game. A great story with a great ending. Many complain that the ending was pointless because you don’t get your revenge, but the first game is about bringing Ellie to the fireflies to get a cure, but that never happens? People just want to hate on the game so much just because it was something completely different than what naughty dog usually does, and most of the actual fans of the first game loved this one as well
The game looks absolutely beautiful. The graphics DONT make a game good, the story does. The game is a big waste of time. Joel saves abby, joel tells strangers his name then dies by them. You search for a character(Abby) to kill but end up getting your ass beat. Ellie gets warned to not let Abby see her. Get forced fed sjw transgender stuff about a girl wanting to be a boy but her people didn't like it and weren't treating her right. You (Ellie ) find Abby and damn near drown her only to let her live. Come to an empty home not able to play the guitar well with the missing fingers. Ellie then leaves the house. Can a third game feel more forced?
This is not a game, it’s MASTERPIECE. This game deserves to have sequel, everything was wonderful and perfect during my play through of this GAME OF THE CENTURIES.
Обычный середняк. Джоел - мой любимый персонаж и Дракман его без зазрения совести быстро сливает в этой части, как лишнего. Ужас, и это несмотря на то, что Джоел - самый главный герой! Извините, разработчики у вас совесть есть? Первые два часа игры я был в шоке - сплошное нытье и темы секса с ЛГБТ, словно у разработчиков есть пунктик по этому поводу. Да и вся игра симулятор ходьбы по большому счету, открой принеси, включи рубильник. Ставлю 6 баллов из 10 - это реально середняк, на фоне божественной первой части. Верните Брюса Стрейли! Но несмотря на некоторые вышеперечисленные косяки, геймплейно игра шедевр - боевая система самая продвинутая на данный момент, изменил оценку



You over hyped this and killed it before it was even released. It doesn't live up to the hype. Never would. I played it for 10 mins before the first crash. Blue error screen and kicked out of game. Its got many of the same bugs the first LoU 1 has so none of them were fixed or removed. Looks just like LoU 1. I thought it was supposed to look great but it doesn't. Looks like a 7 year old game. I am not impressed with the PC gay crap in the game. WHO CARES what sexual orientation she is, not our concern. Gay crap shouldn't be in the game. It shouldn't be in ANY game. Hate it so much im not going to finish it. Instead going to return it to the shop for a full refund.

In my opinion this game is amazing , the story clearly upsets people but that’s the point , when writing a story or a film you can play with the antagonist/protagonist point of view but when you are forced to play as the one you may loathe you are pushed into empathy (hopefully) and clearly some of the reviews show they took issue . To really see the cat/canary concept built into what is essentially two games is amazing. It’s sad to see that so many people do not appreciate the story , sure could some things be better of course ,but it’s easy to criticize the writing when you have never created a complex woven narrative . I enjoyed it so much ,I also cringed and got mad but some of my favorite books and films make me uncomfortable.
Игра просто супер, графика просто бомба, игра вызывает необъяснимые эмоции, которые не одна игра не вызывала. Люди которые хейтят игру, просто переиграли в свой майнкрафт и КС, где и думать не надо на сюжетом
This game has the worst scenario of the year. The gameplay is no different from the first part. The graphics are not bad. I hope the team that created the game finds a more adequate leader than Neil Druckmann
Игра великолепна. Специально не смотрел спойлеры, прохождения и хейты, пока сам не пройду и не пожалел. Игра вызывала бурю эмоций от ненависти до любви. Сюжет первой части был простой, я бы даже сказал базовый, эмоциональный, но одноразовый. Любое продолжение в той же манере изложения с теми же героями в том же мире и сиквел будет лишь жалкой попыткой повторить успех. И сценарист стоит перед выбором, сделать то же самое, снабдив новой графикой и движком, этакое dlc, либо рискнуть, пойти дальше, и дать новые сильные эмоции. Я считаю, что это получилось и вторая часть будет эталоном и ориентиром как надо делать игры. Что касается хейтинга, то тут всё просто. Большинство не различают реальность и вымысел. Часть из них ассоциировала себя с бессмертным Джоэлом, которому... ой... прям сразу башню раскроили. А другая уже Элли за себя замуж выдала или в дочки себе записала, а она... ой... пацанами не интересуется, да и пальцы свои скормила в очередном припадке. Сука Нил все планы порушил. Я с хейторов ору просто.
My official review is on the left. I wanted to avoid, my colleagues being blacklisted by sony, for giving a low score. My personal opinion on this game is this. It´s not really a videogame, more of a interactive movie. You wander from setpiece to setpiece, give the inputs which are very basic and move on. Then the typical cover shooter arena or platforming part are inbetween to "diversify" the gameplay which only is tedious after so much games from the same developer. A lot of things happen out of stupidety of the characters which is often a result of bad writing. Characters are very flat and only few have signs of development. Personally I´d say if you´ve played the last of us, you´ve played the second installment with the main difference that you control a character which you probably can´t really get into. Only good thing are visuals, which is not enough to make a interactive movie into a game, but needed to sell this product to a wider audience. If you have the urge to "play" it, I´d say ask a friend to borrow, wait until a sale or a used copy because paying 60$ for a tortue porn movie is a bit much. Just a friendly insider warning, if a game has too much positive ratings, there´s something fishy going on.
It's 2020, I like to believe we live in a modern society, where bigots do not have rights to threat and insult people. (Ok, I know we are not living in a modern society, 2020 is actually a great indicator for that). I do not think I have anything else to say about the game that critics like Screen Rant, GamesRadar+ or Kinda Funny Games already said. You know, critics and journalist, people who are not homophobic and who actually played and finished the game. And if you really played the game and then gave it 0 - you lost in it. And maybe you lost your humanity and empathy too.
Poor story, characters acting in opposition to how they behaved in first Tlou, mediocre gameplay, leftist agenda forced down your throat. If you loved first game, this one will annoy and disappoint you hard, as story writers wanted to destroy everything you liked in first game. And they succeeded. Not recommended to anyone.
just....... it story not good, really bad,bad idea. so can not even bring herself to take revenge but seems to have no problem killing hundreds of people instead.

El juego es simplemente una belleza, con the last of us parte dos, se nos enseña una vez más la crueldad de lo que podemos llegar los seres humanos para el beneficio de este. El apartado de Gameplay logra que te sientas como las protagonistas en el ámbito de poder hacer casi todo que se te venga a la mente al igual que la fluidez del combate. En la historia cumple totalmente ya que nos detalla a cada uno de sus personajes y logra hacernos sentir algo por ellos a tal punto de no saber que decisión tomar. The last of us parte 2 no es un juego para toda la familia, es un juego de naturaleza cruel y oscura, que no todo sale bien como su contraparte "Uncharted", aquí podemos ver que cada acto tiene su consecuencia, simplemente el único juego que me a hecho salir de mi habitación para tener que calmarme de lo fuerte que es el juego. Otra obra maestra de parte del equipo de Naughty Dog.
excellent game, touching story, cry life in this game !! I'm already playing it for the 4th time and I love it !! I look forward to the 3rd part!! Thanks ND for the last of us 2
Absolute Masterpiece. Naughty dog gods. Neil Druckmann the great artist. The best work of art on ps4. Абсолютный шедевр. Naughty dog боги. Neil Druckmann великий художник. Лучшее произведение искусства на PS4.
Es uno de los juegos único, hacia tiempo que no jugaba un juego con tanta personalidad
What a JOKE... What a pity. Game is horrible, Low dialogs and all argument is very, very, very basic. What the hell! The anterior LOU is magnificent. This version is very poor. RIP TLOU II.and RIP Naughty Dog.

A complex narrative, full of brave choices. The two games should be part of every course in writing for cinema or games. The second half of the game adds to the story and builds a world and characters which confront the players with their actions. The fact that this is a game and the player is the one in charge create a visceral experience you can’t get anywhere else. I’ve finished the game overcome by emotions. This is a masterpiece.
Holy **** this was such a wild ride! The graphics and gameplay were so fluid and phenomenal, at times I was just amazed at how well this game looked and felt as I played. A lot of people complain about the story, but they must not have finished the game because it all makes perfect sense, you actually feel the loss and grief of Joel’s death throughout the entire game, which makes the whole point of the story make sense. Abby is a total bone-head and as Mel says, a piece of **** but in the end, she loses everything and gets what she deserves. She also spares Ellie twice in the game and she tries to redeem herself . The game did not push any agenda like these bigots review bombing rn are saying, it barely mentions that one character is trans, but it isn’t sugar coated either. I am still recovering for a few days of beating it because I literally mourn for some of these losses. The game is jaw-dropping at moments and the gameplay is irresistibable. I will be replaying it again. Absolute masterpiece.
The direction this game was driven towards was like a drunk pilot driving an aircraft carrier into the ocean. The graphics are improved, but some textures and scenes are just downright ugly. Some characters don't move when approached and dogs "rotate" instead of turning their bodies naturally when you go to pet them, destroying the immersion even more. Crafting is also improved but extremely overrated (all this hype about JuMpInG being added to the game for example is a complete let down) like most elements in this game. Speaking of elements that are disappointing, this also applies to the story. Joel is killed by the "main antagonist", but the dumbest thing of all is that Joel isn't even "in" this game. You only "interact" with him in flashbacks which are incredibly stupid. Characters are more diverse, but are all unlikeable and at times insufferable - including Ellie. It doesn't feel like a real horror, the Last of Us 2 experience. It feels like what would happen if the franchise was taken over by SJWs led by Anita Sarkeesian to prove some "#woke" political point no one cares about, and not even doing it well (for example, Abby, seen as the main antagonist, is transgender, which is portrayed as a villain but also deserves pity cuz Joel bad! Or the constant hilarious and stupid decisions Ellie makes that you have no control over.) The pacing is also terrible. The game feels way too long for what it is and just seems to fester as you play it with mundane tasks, as if the devs were forced to add filler to meet a quota. The sex scene with Abby for example, while extremely cringey, lingers on way too long afterwards at a black screen for no reason other than to fill time and make you question life itself. Ellie makes this HUGE fuss over revenge... And doesn't even complete her mission, meaning the hundreds / thousands of people she killed, and the extreme danger she put all her friends through in getting to Abby, was all for naught, pointless, and completely selfish, leaving the ending unrewarding and extremely contradictory to the entire plot. TL;DR Overall its an average horror game with slightly better graphics and a terrible story, but as a LAST OF US game, comes off s an overrated, boring, and quite frankly extremely disappointing experience, that was a product of poor decision making, abuse of employee labor and having to PAY "journalists" for reviews and 10/10. If something is too good to be true usually it is. This game is an abomination of a forced sequel for easy sales, that nobody asked for. Don't believe the paid reviews, or hell even me, go and see for yourself how much of a trainmen this franchise has become - unless you're an SJW, pass. This game single-handeldly ruined the franchise. Play the first TLOU instead.
This game is an absolute huge steaming pile of garbage. There are too many cutscenes and boring walking sections in this game. This isn't even a game, this is a movie. The story is by far the worst story I ever seen in a videogame. There are too many plot holes and it is poorly written. The dialogue is extremely cringeworthy. The characters are bland and cringeworthy as well. The gameplay is so boring and repetitive. The developers were too cheap and lazy to overhaul the gameplay, despite multiple delays. The level design is a joke. The physics are trash and the gore is exaggerated, which breaks immersion. Speaking of immersion, the AI is incredibly stupid in this game. There are very little puzzles and all of them are lazily designed. The running animations are laughable. The pacing is so horrendous in this game, it almost put me to sleep out of boredom. The developer who directed this movie game even admitted that they don't use the word "fun". If their goal was to not make the game fun, then they nailed it. It's pathetic that game developers don't even want games to be fun anymore. If I'm not mistaken, games are suppose to be fun. That is the reason why I even play videogames in the first place. There is so much SJW influence in this game. There is no multiplayer at all. So once you beat the story, there is not a reason to touch this game again. It will go back to the shelf and collect dust. Charging $60 for a game with no replay value is a cashgrab. The greedy developers are basically charging $60 for a movie ticket. They promised there would be multiplayer and decided to cut it out. The developers were too greedy and lazy to develop multiplayer. The only good thing in this game is graphics, but the graphics sacrificed the gameplay mechanics. I don't recommend this worthless game at all.
Way too predicible and boring gameplay. Story had too many bad times. It should habe more good moments. Its ver bad. I loved the first game but this is very bad Naughty Dog.
Loved it from start to finish. Gameplay is much smoother and a big improvement over the first game. The story in Part 2 wasn't as good as the first, but it was still REALLY good. Really enjoyed the inclusion of more artifacts/documents/etc. The acting in this game is all top notch. Wasn't so hot on Abby's character design, it felt a little forced, but her acting was great. I didn't like the graphic sex scene, I thought it was really gross and totally unwarranted. I don't regret my pre-order. 9/10.
O primeiro é Mil Vezes Melhor,Matar um cara como Joel logo no Início do Game fala sério. Colocando Lacração como Smp meu Deus. O game tem uma Ótima Jogabilidade, Gráficos Lindos....mas deixa a desejar em outros aspectos, História muito forçada !!8

Horrible games not cool enough that you play as non original characters not cool
По мелким деталям видно, что игру делали с душой. Сюжет вызывает невероятные эмоции, а поступки персонажей заставляют тебе переосмысливать их положение и их самих.

Simply AMAZING! This is the new standard for storytelling in video games. Future GOTY! Part 3 can’t come soon enough!
Game full of bugs , not to mention the weak graphics ! Completely leaked story ! Sony spends years to launch the game and when it does it full of buga
O jogo se chama the last of us mas se esqueceu disso e passou a focar apenas em questões políticas o gameplay é horrível e o jogo tem cutscenes a cada 5min não dá pra gostar desse jogo.
I can't believe how bad the story is, it's a mess, this is more overrated than the first game, it tries so hard, and fails to deliver. The amount of 10's from the media this game received is a testament to the disconnect between journalists and the general public. Metacritic will probably scrape all 0's so I recommend you give it at least a 1/10. It is so sad that this game will probably end up winning GOTY.
The best stealth I've ever met. Animations and sound are also good. The plot tells about the other side of revenge.
A beautifull game. Ellie broke my heart during this game, the look on her face was so sad during all the game. The flashback are nice especially the first one! Playing as Abby was good too , thah was a good way to show that she is just like Ellie and I like Both of them The animations are god-tier.same for the graphism and everything ! A MUST HAVE GOTY FOR NOW
If you've never read a book or even seen a movie about revenge you'd like it. Otherwise it's cliche and boring. Revenge is bad, duh. (it's also not, revens is as good as the reason is)
This game is not as good as some may say. if you like a slow game that is stealth based then maybe. dont buy this game if you want action or a fast pace. the graphics are better than uncharted but the rest of the game is worse. the controls suck and are sluggish. the combat is so bad that you almost have to play the game stealthy. not worth $60. maybe worth $30 for a used copy if you really want to play it. dont buy this game expecting alot other than good graphics and keep you hopes low so maybe you wont be disappointed. just my opinion but this game is WAY over rated.

Good game. It's better than the first Last of Us. It's even better than Kingdom Hearts 3. This game is long and has LOTS of details like Red Dead Redemption 2, Skyrim, and 2018's God of War combined. It's an awesome game.


Incredible. This is the swan song for the end of the ps4 era much like what the first game did for the ps3. Looks amazing, combat is dynamic and fun, voice acting is unparalleled. Naughty dog shows once again why they are the best at what they do.


Game crashing Joy pad confuse Graphics suspect More cutscenes than game I really expect more from this game, almost 8 years to show a weak game, no way!
El juego es deslumbrante, en todos los aspectos que se pueden evaluar, gráficos,jugabilidad, historia,etc. Hay muchas críticas malas de jugadores ya que estos no logran captar lel mensaje del juego ya que se niegan a disfrutar del juego por diferentes situaciones que ocurren el la historia,como la muerte de Joel o el cambio de personaje a Abby.

Terrible game with several bugs, I fell in several holes in the game that I had to restart the game and several times the game closed without any warning. A terrible story without respect for the characters of the first one and an excessively sexual theme. Money thrown away in that trash! I HATE Joel's death and the way it happened ... And then playing with the person who killed him is outrageous and revolting
Wow what can I say, this game is absolutely phenomenal! It took me on a ride that is unmatched by any game I've ever played. The graphics, lighting and Game-play are out of this world, and the story is incredible! It's definitely for adults though, but this is a must play for serious and casual gamers alike.
Masterpiece, the game plays with your feelings, and does it well. Gameplay is veeery interesting. Relationships between charachers are just next level. Music, oh music, im crying it's beatiful. There is only one thing i disliked. We have to play too mich as other charachter(ebby) but that has some sense in the end. I LIKE THIS GAME AND RECOMEND IT. Im just 14 years and spend a lot if my money for this. And you know? It worth it.
O enredo criado em The Last of Us 1 foi totalmente jogado no lixo, a partir do momento que Neil Druckman resolveu lacrar. Não existe cura para a infecção, não existe o objetivo maior que seria a salvação da humanidade. A Naughty Dog passa por problemas, isso já sabemos, mas nada justifica você pegar uma história e jogar no lixo, com menos de 1 hora de gameplay. A única lição que tirei desse jogo, foi que não se deve comprar nada em pré venda, agora é procurar um ferro velho pra tentar recuperar o dinheiro vendendo a caixinha de metal.


O jogo tem gráficos bons e ótima jogabilidade mas a história muitas vezes força para ideologia, muuuitas cenas e pouco game play, você anda e anda e anda e mata alguns inimigos para assistir outra cena e a assim o jogo segue.
Great game! I dont know what the fuss is about but im loving it. I think everyone is just following the bad reviewers. All i here is the same **** joel is dead and it was epic. Get over it.
I think no-one can argue the game has great graphics and gameplay but isn't that to be expected nowadays? Especially from AAA game companies, anything less would be strange. Obviously the story is the major issue here. People are getting tired of having politically correct social justice crammed down our throats. Entertain us. Don't scar is like school does nowadays


A key moment to actually prove that gaming journalists are either paid for giving good reviews. The game itself is clusterf... of a story that only one man likes; the creator. Technically it's ok. I don't we ever will see a game reviewed so differently between users (real gamers) and sellout journalists.
Игра года! Отличная графика, великолепный сюжет, спасибо всей команде разработчиков. А тем идиотам кто ставит 0 хочется сказать идите все лесом дауны. Они даже не играли в этот шедедр
So unpredictable game amazing story with amazing graphics this is an absolute masterpiece enjoyed every second of the game please avoid spoils buy a game play it then judge :) i am really hard to get on with a game only games i played completely were tlou 1 tliu2 and uncharted and i have got ps4 for 4 years it says all
I didn't like it, it was like watching John wick and he didn't kill the guy who killed the dog, after killing 300 people, why would one more make a difference ??
The truth is that I did not like that twist in this new chapter, it has been very bad and counting that now they turn out to be couples of both genders, this to promote this type of relationship I do not see well for adolescents and in terms of physics the game It is disgusting with ridiculously very false animations and the script of the narrative very bad and leaving the narrative the protagonist and has a thousand different faces reaching a point that I do not know who is who with so many different faces takes away the desire to follow history with from time to time a literally different character this game is a joke I do not recommend it at all .

Muy buena experiencia, gameplay exquisito. Historia buena pero no sobresaliente como la anterior.
La historia no es MALA, es la PEOR DE LA HISTORIA. SPOILER: Joel, quien desconfiaba hasta de sus sombra, confían como si nada en ABBY y va con su grupo? toda la historia es así de falsa y forzada. El juego se hace lento, SIEMPRE LA PUERTA CERRADA, nos hace perder hs. Muy triste por la primer parte que si, hizo historia.
Rip off of Walking Dead (especially the Negan sensless brutality angle) finally runs out of steam on the one-trick social justice pony it thought was a thoroughbred. Happy to never see another Naughty Dog game after playing just the first hour of this post-modernist torture porn.
Jogo sensacional, metacritic deveria banir jogadores de outras plataformas q nunca nem jogaram o jogo e virem aqui poder dar nota


An insult to everything that made the first game so great. 25 hours of revenge nonsense with no payoff and every character is unlikable. The story is so pathetic and meaningless you won't care who lives or dies by the end.
Anytime creators inject political narratives or virtue signaling into a game, it ceases being a game and becomes propaganda. When the paid shills fawn over the game giving it 10 out 10 then you know its awful. The creator's actions (dcma take downs) shows they are not worthy of being treated fairly. The story is below par. It comes across as a entitled parent story on reddit. 2 minutes in and you feel full from all the BS they have fed you. Save your money or go buy the new Skyrim because this turd stinks and needs to be flushed. The fact that you still have websites and paid shills trying in vain to convince actual gamers that this is worthy of playing show everything that is wrong with the industry. Shills are nothing more than political activists masquerading as objective gamers, gaming companies desperately trying to virtue signal to the far left activists that they are "woke". Platforms carrying political narratives into what becomes games and websites trying to lessen the impact of actual gamers opinions in order to push political crap. Voters told these far left fascists and low IQ SJWs that they are not in ANY kind of agreement with their Anti-American views so the shills and activists doubled their efforts to flood all entertainment platforms with their nonsensical political views. Thankfully these "woke" companies are falling one after another because no one wants to pay to listen to what offends them or what group they are trying to virtue signal. Bottom line: ANY company/website/activist that injects their fascist opinions, woke activism or ignorance into OUR entertainment deserves to have their intellect match their pockets : bankrupt, devoid of creativity and hope. They deserve to be jobless, homeless and friendless. Their brand of activism has no place in this world.
Measuring the original The Last Of Us on 'gameplay' alone it was nothing special. It was a very solid survival horror game. But it was elevated by its engrossing story, its engaging characters and the dynamic between them, and the artistic direction. The Last Of Us Part 2 has the same bog-standard gameplay but it now feels worse because gaming has evolved over the years and this game feels stuck in 2013. But the worst aspect is that developer has flushed the story and the characters down the pan. The game is a disgusting and miserable slog with horrific violence and cheap shock value masquerading as 'deep subtext'. Fans of the original game should avoid this.
The graphics here are a huge improvement over the last game. The gameplay also has been improved upon when it comes to combat but it's already starting to feel very repetitive. The puzzles are more interesting but there are a lot less than what was in the first game. The characters do not feel like the same people as they were in the first game. The story is the biggest let down so for, it when from an Impactful Story-Driven Experiences with moments of joy such as petting a giraffe and choose to leave Ellie hanging (not give a high five) to this game which is just revenge with a side of depression and full of plot holes.
Самая ожидаемая игра для любителей первой части The Last uf us. Вторую часть купил по предзаказу, специальное издание. За несколько часов игры впечатления самые положительные, очень впечатлила графика, геймплей, звуковое сопровождение. Огромный прорыв в игровой индустрии, возможно дополню отзыв после полного прохождения данной игры. P.S. Общую картину в отношении данной игры портят большое количество спойлеров, не совсем понятно зачем это люди делают ...
literally changing character models in trailer just to sell their game and make us buy it and they just lied to us and didnt make it another masterpiece after 7 tears to be a story between joel and ellie and literally kill our most beloved character in 1 hour only into the game like what r u doing naughty but they just ruin the main reason we bought this game in 1 h like iam not against the idea of him dying (of course idont want that) but to be killed that way and being out of character bec joel in part 1 would never walk into an obvious trap like that it is just pathetic and at the ending they dont even give us the satisfaction of killing abby like why do they think just bec we played as her for 10 h and make us hirt ellie as her so that we hate ourselves for that r u insane or something like u think that will make us like her guess what we despise her we hate her no matter what how many good things she did because killing probably the most beloved character in gaming history and if u r gonna say that he did bad things yh buyt he did the right choice no father will let his daughter die again and what abby did is muuuuuch worse than what joel did she killed so many good and undeserving people and she gets away with it!!!!! LIKE ARE U SERIOUS!!!! like this is just pathetic its like they were trying to kill their own game with their own hands and they had a chance to fix this mess in the farm scene when u return to the moment joel was being tortured they could hv made everything like a dream but no they just had to ruin the incredible franchise and if they do a part 3 with no joel in it no 1 will buy it bec this game cant be called the last of us with no joel in it , part 2 should hv been about the last 4 years after the hospital scene only and see how ellie and joel relationship develop and ellie slowly starts to discover the truth and end it with that scene when she told joel we r done and walks away now that would be a great cliffhanger for part 3 and make part 3 about this revenge or whatever u were trying to do and dont kill joel this way make him die protecting ellie like literally when he fell on that iron pipe in the last of us 1 that would hv been a better death than this so this shows how bad this death is for such a big and lovable character to all fans
The game is Amazing.., I don't know what people expected, Joel and Elie walking from point A to pont B again.. I like the story so far... 10 hours into the game.., Epic game... Thanks Naughty Dog.... It’s hard to impress people these days...,
The story is extremely poor while the graphics and gameplay are amazing,It is clearly a huge loss to gaming that such an anticipated sequel of such a Wonderful game has been utterly garbage.The few good moments in the games such as the flashbacks make you wonder how the game could have been..
Gaymeplay is still extremly borring and Joel death scene so disappointment. There is no music as well. Game looks like spin-off and no more
Visual - 10 Audio - 10 Gameplay - 6 Story - 2 UI&Interface - 7 Overall - 4 And -2 for disabling Likes/comments/buying access media/game journals/
Разочарован игрой полностью… графика тут не спасает. Не этого я ждал от Naughty Dog. Это тот редкий случай, когда я пожалел потраченных денег на игру. Оценка ноль для равновесия с журнализами, которые ставят этой игре незаслуженную 10-ку!
The game have an awful story, they make u play with the worse character ever created, they put a lot of lgtb scenes that are really innecesaries (included sex scenes) that look very very cringe, the final totally sucks
Guión decepciona en casi todo, desencantado y defraudado con el final. El juego obliga a ver las cosas con cierta carga política (No tiene que ver en absoluto con la orientación amorosa o sexual de Ellie) y obliga a perdonar, sentir o manejar a personajes imposibles de empatizar, lo bueno que no hay juegos parecidos que trasmitan esta sensación de odio sin sentido, tambien los gráficos, la jugabilidad e incluso es divertido en muchos puntos. Decepcionado como Fan del primero.
worst game ever in gaming industry.such a disappointment naughty dogs are best games creator but why they make this game with full of nonsense.
Это просто, пи*%#ц... слов даже нет тех, как описать это... алчный фанатизм Дракмана, уничтожил столь любимую почти всеми игру, в шлак. Кранч удался
Boring as hell! Had to force myself to finish the game. They did Joels character dirty and just a poorly written story. Still feels like the first game, nothing innovative. they force players to play the most boring and unlikable character Abby. other than that the graphics are beautiful and fun gamplay mechanics.
Lindo juego regular final aun asi aporta muy bien a la historia de los gamers jejeje que creizi
Don't play this game, just be happy with the ending of "The Last of Us 1" this game ruins the first one. The story is awful, it takes forever to get to the point and when it finally does it blows right past it, the motivations at the end of the game make no sense. The story is shallow, it's basically John Wick hunts down John Wick. all the character are unlikable and moody

When I bought the game, I expected absolutely not what I got. In all the videos, we were trying to convince that the game will be about our favorite characters, about their journey and revenge for the girl Ellie. But it turned out that my favorite character is killed at the very beginning, and then they make me play for his killer and try to prove to me that she is the same ordinary person with a hard life. After passing the game, I was left with an unpleasant, depressing feeling. If I had known, I would never have bought this game. I want to get from the games fun and not to look at the grey morality
Sony PlayStation is just a shell of its past self goner the days of fun linear story driven single player games with great writing and characters and no politics.
La historia es peor que horrible, tiene un downgrade respecto a los trailers enorme y una jugabilidad normalista.
Neil Druckmann simply took and ripped out heart from the fans. They did not care about everything, the main thing is to work out the agenda of minorities. He forever destroyed the story ... even the first part will now be apprehensively remembered. He has no forgiveness. Disappointment is no limit.

Un juego que se ve influenciado por las tendencias de la actualidad de la identidad de generos , para causar polémica, haciendo aun lado la buena historia que llevaba el primer juego, y un gameplay que lo podríamos confundir con un Splinter cell pero con una chica con diferentes preferencias sexuales, esperaba mucho de él y la decepción ha sido grande. Nada nuevo que aportar
This is one of the greatest western games for the last 10 years, even if it's not for everyone. The sad part that games are growing, but gamers are not.

First, the good: Graphics, Acting, World-Building and level-design are all 10/10, the facial expressions are on-point, being probably the best I've ever seen. That's it. The Bad: this game doens't shine where it's supposed to: the story. Is it *BAD* ? No... But it ain't good. Some decisions made by characters in the story's key points are simply too off-character. three examples: 1) Joel walking in a house full of strangers. This makes no sense. Joel is a hardcore apocalypse survival and he didn't survive over 20 years by trusting strangers like that, the first game makes that clear. 2) Abby sparing Ellie after losing all her friends. We're talking about a woman that remained obsessed for years with killing a man that murdered her father, to the point where she even took up body-building to make sure that if she ever got the chance, she'd make short work of it. And you're telling me that this very same woman meets the person that murdered: a) her lover, b) her friend who is pregnant with her lover's child and c) the rest of her friends who might as well be her family at this point, and she let's this person lives?! Did Gandhi's spirit possessed her or something? This makes no sense. 3) Ellie sparing Abby at the end. This is also complete BS for 2 reasons: a) **** Climax: Can you imagine playing God of War 3 only to reach the end and witness Kratos not kill Zeus? Yeah, this is what this game will give you. b) Completely Off-Character: Throughout game 1 and 2 of the franchise Ellie establishes herself as a pretty violent person (as anyone with the grit to survive in an apocalyptic world would have to be), she brutally murders a lot of people along the way (I can't remember her killing anyone who didn't deserve it either because they were evil or because they were attacking Ellie herself and thus making it a self-defense situation, but that's another matter), which proves that killing, at this point in time, comes naturally for her. She also carved her way through half a post-apocalyptic continent pursuing her vengeance only to give up at the very end? If this isn't off-character I don't know what is. All of these three points could easily be fixed by: 1) Giving more screen time to Joel & Ellie, showing how life in Jackson has made him soft (bonus: this would also be a much welcome fan-service; since Joel and Ellie's relationship is what made the first game special). 2) Show Abby not getting what she expected from revenge. Show her learning that "Vengeance is a fool's game", as Arthur Morgan would say. Not only that, but the way she tortured Joel also took a toll on how her friends relate to her and so she learns from the fallout of her actions that she needs to change and then she vows to be different just before finding her friends dead... This still isn't enough to make her spare Ellie, but you can make their fight ending a draw-like situation where both parties give up since they are both too **** up from their fight. 3) Show the toll of killing a pregnant woman has taken on Ellie's life. She feels immense regret for it and she's just not the same anymore. She still goes after Abby and the player is given the choice whether or not Ellie kills Abby or not at the very end.

Una obra de arte sin duda alguna. Una vez, hemos vuelto a demostrar la verdadera cara GAMER... Muy alejada del prototipo de persona abierta y socialb realizando el review bombing por envidia al no poder jugar al juego al ser exclusivo o por homofobia. El juego desde que comienza maravilla... Sus detalles, su jugabilidad, como todo se finde en una idea a la perfección. Rap, emocionantes te sumerge desde el primer momento a un mundo distópico donde narra con frialdad como ocurrirían las cosas. Imprescindible

not a bot you hypocritical modders, the paid reviewers obviously did not objectively review this dumpster fire. they destroyed an entire franchise with their sjw rubbish, the story sucks, no more likable characters because of reasons you can view in other comments, and most importantly completely illogical actions by past main characters just to push their sjw agenda.

Игра со скучным геймплеем, скопированным из первой части, нереально затянута, чтобы игрок проникся Эбби (не получилось), неприятными и плоскими персонажами, включая протагонистов, бредовым сюжетом, полным роялей-в-кустах, абсолютно маразматичным взглядом автора на женщин в угоду социально-политической повестке. Не рекомендую даже на Ютубе проходить! P.S. Да, специально зарегался ради отзыва, ибо так надо мной еще никто из геймдева не издевался!
Terrible game , I can't believe Naughty Dog has gone down such a depraved road , they have sacrificed such great lore to achieve their total nonsense agenda, the graphics are phenomenal, but Naughty Dog has always excelled in that area ,I really was looking forward to this game's script because I was truly impressed with the first game's but I was sorely disappointed, never again Naughty Dog will I ever purchase another one of your products unless of course you fire the director, and screen writer.
This game is a joke, stay away if you loved the old characters and the story. Thanks a lot Druckman. This is truly the last of this franchise. cant even go back to the original, complete missed opportunity and way to destroy a franchise, joins the **** with Star Wars, Star Trek, Dr. Who, Terminator, time to get the gasoline out and roast some marsh mellows.
This game is best game in this generation in every aspect people hating on this game they don't understand the and don't listen to those plz give it a try it will change ur mind


Golf scene make the game lose purpose and once you find it. No likeable character or development like at all. This is like a bad Netflix show not a video game. I will pretend this is a Canon and story ended 7 years ago.

I’ve only and I can’t stress enough on ONLY given this game a three star review and that is pushing it like genuine review probably 4.5 - 5 out of 10 and that is solely based on the parts where you play as Ellie, and the gameplay as a whole because if you liked/loved TLOU the gameplay is more or less the same and being a guitar fan I do like the little snippets of Ellie’s new talent being put on show, but that is where the good in this game ends completely, but I’ll explain. I felt lied to from the trailers and overwhelming disappointed in the direction they chose for this game, I absolutely hate and I mean actually hate the character Abby and wanted nothing more than to stop her from breathing in the game I don’t give a rats arse about her backstory, maybe if she was in the first game and it was about her, but no, she is the invader and she is a psychopathic monster that I just wanted the closure of killing her to end that game, but even if I did get that when finishing the game there is absolutely nothing as a reward, Ellie this character that we have grown to love has been dragged through the mud and made to be some mental case and is ultimately left with nothing, “congratulations for finishing the game all that’s left is for the main character to kill herself because why not” they couldn’t of destroyed what was a masterpiece of a story more if they tried (wait no they could make you play as Abby for longer that would do it) first thing I did when I was forced to play as this terrible character is run to the first point where I was able to get killed, I no lo her cared about getting caught by enemy’s or detected by infected I just ran straight in, I mean I wasn’t getting any satisfaction from the game I might aswell get it from watching the character i just wanted to die from the start die over and over again. This game was about as enjoyable as bowel cancer... if you make a part III please just use it to erase the abortion of a game this was by making it all a horrible dream. And this time don’t pretend to include characters you kill off in the first 30 minutes of the game. It’ll take a lot to earn your fan base’s trust back Naughty dog, but for the sake of the amazing content you use to make, I hope you do.

Just no!!! Just know naughty dog are liars and I hope they get done for fails Advertising. End has the biggest let down in story history. There are so many things wrong with this game!!!!!! Is all I can say fair warning! Do not buy!!! You will regret your purchase :(
Maybe the best graphics until the moment, but all the LGBT Agenda ruined the game, Naughty Dog turned a good history in a pile of ... its a shame end the game like this.
The game answers three questions. Sadly none is related to the first part .. - why is forced diversity bad for video games - what are game outlets willing to do for access - how trustworthy are “official” reviews This game takes all of the parts from the first game which were boring but needed and expanded on them in a massive way . The human to human combat was the least interesting and most annoying part of lou1 but if you followed the story you understood that it was needed. And during the play session as Ellie it was created in an interesting way .. in lou2 the combat is almost always the same old human to human combat which wears boring pretty soon and is rather something that is endured than enjoyed. The whole “us against zombies” Is pretty much gone to a tiny bit of the game .. The story is “weak” as in I understand what they wanted to convey, but they clearly missed the mark and made the same mistake as Dr Who season 13 made .. way too many people are brought into the spotlight leaving none with enough time to be developed . Naughty dog should have concentrated on Ellie and Abby and left the others in side notes .. it does and did not work to make the player care for all those brief encounters and stories . And it never will since you need a complete game to be able to relate to a character and some games do not even manage this.. it’s about 8-10 hours game and 10-16 joyless dragging narration you basically care less and less since the protagonists will die anyway .. Moral choice, you have none . Kill them all in the end is not in any shape form and way a “moral choice”.. if you force a character to slaughter its way through the game you can’t call the character out on this . No choice is not a moral choice option. Yea yea environment is beautifull and nice but so was lou1 . No extra points from me here . Cohesion: the single stories are patched together pretty loosely and by character decisions that would not even fly in trainspotting when a character was heavily drugged . That’s not how humans work.. none of it . And so it takes away immersion and creates a disconnect between what’s happening in the game and the player . The suspension of disbelief doesn’t work here .. All in all .. same issue with mass effect andromeda .. on “ok” game as long as you haven’t played the parts before .. the. It’s a simple miss. Naughty dog tried and did not succeed, bringing this idea to life . Try it on sale or as a used copy if you did not play Last of Us 1 .. and if you did play Last of us 1 and enjoyed it, please save yourself the frustration and disappointment. It is not worth it .
MASTERPIECE！ Finished the game in 2 days. Breathtaking graphics. Great story that explores multiple human emotions and character development. I ended up loving both protagonists: Abby ＆ Ellie... they' d make a lovely couple ；）
Stop with the false narrative: There isn't a strong divide between players, as the user score makes it seem. Most people who have ACTUALLY played and finished the game, like it. This game was and still IS getting heavily review bombed. It's also misinformation that the game was carrying some "agenda". Characters in this game simply exist...no one is rubbing anything in your face and if you didn't know Eliie was a lesbian you never were a fan of this franchise to begin with! Isn't it ironic that a game about "hate" does garners so much of it from immature people, who seemingly feel unmasked by this game? Isn't it ironic that poor Neil Druckmann gets all the blame, even though HE wrote the first game (TLOU) ON HIS OWN? (Nombet you haters didn't know that, huh?) It's an incredibly brutal and mature game, yet they behave like children while trying to talk it down, rating it down disrespectfully and totally unfairly. It's blatantly obvious by reading the positive and negative reviews on here, who has REALLY played let alone finished the game. After finishing it myself after 32 hours I can’t believe I’m saying this, but this is game is even better than the first game. It’s a wild and partly cruel ride, but it’s an experience you’ll never forget and something no other game has achieved so far on this level of emotional impact and exhilarating gameplay. I have not played a better game in my whole life. Will it hurt you? Yes, but in the end everything comes around. Don’t listen to the trolls and haters. This game is an absolute must play!
could've been better. the writing is awful, the visuals are okay but that's what you're SUPPOSED to do so it's not really anything to reward them over the gameplay and mechanics have very little changes, some of the mechanics are outright useless but its not something really amazing. the only part of this game truly new and something to talk about is the animations, but seeing as i don't agree with a forced crunch culture that forces workers to miss out on their families in favor of watching torture and murder p*rn these animations are not worth it.
Além de uma história forçada de vingança, sem muito sentido no enredo e ocultando seus erros com apelo ao movimento lgbt dentre outros , é totalmente esquecível e nada comparado a seu antecessor .

Después de estar dos días jugando sin parar solo puedo decir. WOW, menudo pedazo de final tiene el juego. Qué lástima que tanta gente nunca lo vaya a jugar. Me ha gustado mucho las dos historias entrelazadas de Ellie y Abby, te hace reflexionar y ver la otra parte, puedo decir incluso que la historia de Abby me ha gustado más que la de Ellie. El final me ha encantado. En cuanto a duración me parece suficiente, habría quitado algunas partes más repetitivas sobre todo en la primera mitad del videojuego y hubiese acercado la segunda mitad que tiene mucho más ritmo y engancha más. Mi nota es: 9
Первое впечатление было потрясающим! Хотелось рассматривать каждый кустик, предмет в игре, обшарить каждый дом и рассмотреть детали. Столько мелочей, которые наполняют мир, для меня первые 5 минут окупили игру. Геймплей понравился, сама механика. Есть нюансы, когда тебя начинают видеть или слышать, хотя не должны. Я считаю до сих пор, что это было предательством со стороны создателей, так расправится с персонажем, кто принес им любовь фанатов. Большие проблемы с игрой у меня начались, когда нужно было играть за персонажа, который вызвал у меня кучу ненависти.Мне не хотелось узнать ее мотивацию, проникаться ее чувствами и играть за нее.Неудивительно, что Эбби помирала все время и вот это доставляло мне хоть какое-то удовлетворение. Сюжет Эбби, это топтание на месте.Ее буквально тянут за волосы вперед, мотивация действий никакая.Лично мне кажется, что всю сюжетную арку с Эбби запихивали в игру в последний момент. Беременная Мэл, это просто тихий ужас, что она вытворяет. Эбби реально сливают а угоду концовке. По игре непонятно, как группировки набирают народ, если за версту всех мочат и рта не дают раскрыть, что в Псах, что в Шрамах. Узнаем, что Эбби поймали, все, домой, дальше с ней уже разберутся, миссия выполнена. Нет, премся зачем-то проверить своими глазами, попутно вырезая очередную банду.И зачем она их гасит? Ведь они за нее отомстили Эбби.Логики ноль и лучше к этому моменту уже отключить мозг или он зависнет. Нашла Эбби,все, вот она наказана, ни чуть не хуже, чем ее действия по отношению к Джоилю, можно опять пойти домой. Ну, или на худой конец, заколоть Эбби, но нет, игрока тащат за шквартник против логики к финалу. Ну не будет такого финала, что нам показывают, просто невозможно, если только Элли не шла второй раз отхватить люлей от Эбби, а то было мало и все, забыв про месть. Сюжет ужасен. Игра в конце делает бессмысленным свое существование.

Set-piece sequences, cinematics, animations and overall visuals are truly something to see, the game is simply gorgeous, as expected from Naughty Dog. Unfortunately, there isn't much beyond the eye-candy layer. The gameplay is slightly better than what the previous TLOU offered. Gunplay still feels janky and awkward, enemies are still largely identical, the AI is slightly better (enemies tend to react to you killing someone, but it doesn't force any kind of change in your approach to combat, nor a differing experience). Overall, it still plays like a mediocre stealth game, there are many games that do stealth with much more freedom of agency, tools and progression. The story, while enacted with amazing detail, is really dissonant and sometimes, plain cheap. Characters no longer have relatable motivations and on the rare occasion that they do, it's still not relatable due to plotholes and nonsensical decisions they make. Avoiding spoilers, I'll still say what they did with Joel is one of the cheapest ways I've ever seen writers trying to tear-jerk the player/viewer. You can't simply rely on the established popularity of a character from a previous entry and just decide to do him like filth in the sequel for the sake of doing him like filth in the sequel, to make players feel "sad". Anyone could do that, there's nothing creative about it. The overall "message" of the plot is one we've heard dozens of times before, yes, the cycle of revenge can be a never-ending downward spiral and the writing the game tries to convey this message is petty and suffers from plotholes and facepalm-provoking character choices. Also, aside from the "key" characters from previous game, practically any other character could be replaced with almost anyone at random. They're acting well for most part and they have familiar expressions, but they have no relatable personality or personality traits. The overall level design is pretty good and much more open, though the game let go of the environmental puzzles notable in the studios previous games almost entirely and exploration is rather pointless. Though, I will say that there's still more point to looting than it was in games like Red Dead Redemption 2. Overall, it's not a "bad" game, but a rather forgettable and sometimes boring one, that's longer than it has any right to be. If I pretend that the "shock value for the sake of shock value" moments weren't there, that is.
Bad storytelling. No one has a problem with lesbianism. She was a lesbian in the first game and we loved it. No one has a problem with strong women. Everyone has a problem with Bad Storytelling. Just like I can sit down and explain what makes a good story I can sit down and explain what makes a bad story. Creators who make a bad movie or game or novel or comic now use the excuse of the criticisms of the game are due to politics WRONG you make a bad story and we will call you on it. That's a built in excuse for your failure as writers. The settings were excellent. But the story was not good. Gameplay was not progressive. LOU is one of my favorite games ever. LOU2 is one of the worst games ever. The difference is one was well written and one was badly written. Propaganda and reversing expectations don't work in storytelling. Storytelling is organic. Writing to prove a point disrupts the organic nature of storytelling. Character motivations are destroyed. The pleasure from the first game is destroyed. The reality is the gameplay in these types of games is fun only when it meshes with story.
The last of us was one of the best games I ve ever played. I waited 7 years to play the last of us 2 and the story is awful, thanks Naughty Dog for taking a big dump on the fans. Nice way to end a franchise

Fairly slick gameplay but the AI is still Neil **** levels of aware, that's to say not very, and that makes the slickness of said game almost meaningless. The story is also weak when you consider the new characters are unlikeable jerks and the old characters might as well be new characters as their decisions are those of characters that I do not recognize. It's obvious there was a narrative that Neil Druckmann wanted to tell about revenge and violence being bad that he insisted we needed for the millionth time. He clearly didn't care about arriving to any events organically and the story is then as subtle as a Nicolas Cage performance.

Obviously graphics and gameplay are on point. But this game felt so akward and meaningless and just straight up wierd. Not a fan of what felt like an agenda push instead of a good quality storyline that we could all relate to. Couldn't even continue playing after awhile, I just watched the highlights on youtube and was relieved I never had to play it myself. Lol That spicy scene was horrendously akward to the max. Naughty dog should rehire the lady that made Uncharted epic. And throw the sjw crap out the window.
Played through the Last of Us 2 and while the gameplay is solid, and the graphics is great, I don't agree with what they did with the story. Joel's story could have been better. I also think Abby's being a playable character should have stopped when she got to the theater instead of making us go up against Ellie as Abby.
Best game ever !!! the impact it had on me shows that games can be more than just gameplay and a very influencial art-form, this masterpiece will go down as one of the greatest ever, and i can't imagine how these haters are review bombing just because they are angry at the story...shows a lot about the maturity of lot of gamers. to dismiss the graphics, sounds, music, acting, gameplay, world building just because you got butthurt shows how immature your judgement is.
In the world of commerce we vote with our dollars, and this game will keep me from voting for Naughty Dog in the future. Thankfully there are so many video games out there, that no matter how good of a game they release, I will be OK not playing it. The graphics in this game earn it a 3. Everything else is lacking to me. The game-play itself is stale and feels last-gen. The movement, level design, progression, weapons and combat are all uninspired. Now the story. Games like this are almost completely dependent on the story. If it is good, we can forgive other shortfalls. If it is bad, it ruins the game. This story is bad, and I mean REALLY bad. The developers even tells us "this game is not supposed to be fun". Well if that was the goal, they nailed it! There is nothing redeeming about this second installment of The Last of Us, and I can only hope that they do not make another...ever... I won't tell you what happens, but only encourage you NOT to play this game! Western games have fallen off a cliff into the abyss of agenda, and I would recommend looking to the east for your entertainment until this is corrected.
This is not the sequel we deserved... After falling in love with Joel and Ellie in the first game, Part 2 introduces us to the unlikable, ugly, and outright evil Abby, who tortures and kills Joel in the beginning of the game. Then the game forces you to play as this unrealistically buff woman as the second protagonist. Perfect visuals and highly customizable difficulty and accessibility options of the game do not mitigate the horribly written story with no character development. Ellie and Joel act out of character, which makes this game feel like a stupid fan-fiction, created to convey woke political messages. Graphics: 10/10 (amazing graphics) Gameplay: 5/10 (nothing innovative. not so different from the first game. forces you to play as Abby.) Story: 0/10 New characters: 1/10 Overall: 1/10 Do not spend 60$ on this crap. Rent it or wait for sale, if you're ready to endure the pain that is Abby.
Weak story line that jumps all over the place and forces you to try and like characters you dont care for. Imagine buying a Mario or Link game in which they die in the first 30 min (and you dont get to use them) then the game forces you to play an enemy side character lackey and watch/playthrough the lackey's back story.
Cuando anunciaron este juego por primera vez tuve mucha preocupación porque podrían arruinar la gran historia que significó el primero, no obstante, era Naughty Dog y ellos no suelen defraudar cuando se trata de una buena narrativa, así que por otro lado tenía emoción por saber como continuaría la historia de Joel y Ellie. Cuando las filtraciones salieron a la luz, mi mayor miedo se hizo realidad, pero luego Neil Druckman salió a decir que esos leaks no eran el producto final y de alguna forma traté de creer que así sería. The last of us II ha sido estrenado y no se debe negar que los aspectos técnicos y visuales son increíbles, se ve espectacular incluso en un PS4 fat; de igual forma la jugabilidad ha mejorado, es similar al primer juego, pero aún más ligero de llevar. Sin embargo, llegamos al punto más importante de este juego, la historia. Los juegos de Naughty Dog son esos en donde el 80% se lo lleva la narrativa, pues te transmiten mucho y te atrapan más en la inmersión. Pero en este juego se olvidaron de todo ello. Para empezar se deshacen de un personaje muy querido como es Joel, y lo hacen de una manera miserable. Joel es capturado, junto a Tommy, luego de confiar en un grupo que no conoce, a pesar que en el primer juego se explica que es una persona muy cuidadosa en ese sentido. Una escopeta le destruye la rodilla dejándolo inmóvil y a merced de un nuevo personaje que hasta ese momento no se sabe quién es y cuáles son sus intenciones. Ellie también es capturada, en su afán de rescatar a Joel y Tommy, y es frente a ella cuando matan a Joel a punta de golpes con un palo de golf. Ese es el detonante de la historia, pero todo esto sucede a las 2 horas de haber empezado el juego, solo 2 horas para ver morir a un gran personaje como Joel. No me cabe duda que él podría morir en esta entrega, pero se merecía un mejor final y no sólo 2 horas y algunos flashback en todo el juego, tal vez debieron mirar y aprender de Rockstar sobre cómo matar a un protagonista. Es entonces que Ellie y Tommy salen en busca de venganza, cada uno por su lado, asesinando casi a medio país en el proceso. Por otro lado, Naughty Dog y Neil Druckman introducen a este nuevo personaje, Abby, la asesina de Joel, y además hacen que sea jugable por cortos períodos desde el comienzo para más adelante pasar a formar parte de una historia mayor en donde conocemos que es hija de uno de los doctores que Joel asesina en el final del primer juego, siendo el motivo que la lleva a hacer lo que hizo. Es en este momento que te das cuenta que buscan que el jugador empatice con este personaje y su comunidad de forma obligatoria, pero es algo imposible luego de ver como ellos trataron a Joel, Tommy y Ellie. No obstante, insisten en contarte y que juegues su historia, historia que no aporta mucho a la trama e incluso se aleja demasiado. Es con este personaje que casi matas a Tommy, pero si asesinas a un amigo de Ellie. Lo peor de todo es el final, pues llegado el momento, Ellie encuentra el momento oportuno para matar a Abby y vengar la muerte de Joel y de todo lo que hizo, algo que el jugador pedía a gritos, pero por alguna razón ella decide dejarla viva y que escape, supuestamente para contar que la venganza no es buena, si claro, luego de haber asesinado a casi medio país como les dije en un principio, es decir, no tiene sentido alguno, pues todo lo realizado en el juego es por nada. En un momento vemos un flashback con Joel y Ellie teniendo una conversación en donde él le confiesa la verdad de lo que hizo en el hospital, pero es un momento agridulce que mereció mayor desarrollo y una respuesta definitiva a la relación padre e hija que tenían ambos, pero es algo que nunca obtendremos, pues en la última conversación que ellos tuvieron Ellie le dice que intentaría perdonarlo, pero no sé encuentra segura. En conclusión, The last of us II es un gran juego a nivel técnico y jugable, pero en cuanto a historia es muy malo, deja mucho que desear e hicieron realidad mis miedos sobre esta secuela, algo que no esperé jamás de Naughty Dog.
Waste of money and poor those development team that for a lousy money would do anything and I mean anything... All over traces of wicked and evil propaganda, this is of games are created to destroy manhood, how can a man play this garbage.
Game sucks. Joel's death is an insult to the character and the player. Don't buy.

I borrowed this game from my friend and I can see why this game was hated. It is the WORST games in 2020 and a terrible way to end the PS4 era. Pros: Graphics and Gameplay (...that's it) Cons: Terrible story Terrible writing. Very limited crafting Terrible characters So many agendas that it turns me off and as someone who is actually gay, I find this game offensive and homophobic and spreads message the wrong way. It's not fun. Neil Druckman should be ashamed. It took everything from TLOU1 and scraps it down the trash. I don't want to play a game that is depressing 24/7, I want to play a game that is fun. This game is not one of them.
I bought "The Last of Us 1" and DLC on PS3, bought "The Last of Us 1" on PS4, but this time I bought not a game, but a political statement.. Disappointed.
SPOILER FREE I’ll make this short and sweet. Do NOT listen to the negative review bombs. Are there some flaws with the game? Sure. But most of these negative reviews only pertain to the leaks and LGBT story plot points. If you want to base whether to buy a game on that opinion alone, then I feel bad for you. Naughty Dog has found a way to make me switch from caring about the main characters to the actual new characters. I went from being mad, frustrated, etc. at the additional new characters in the beginning, to being frustrated and mad at ELLIE! The way they created this story was almost flawless. The whole time my jaw was hanging open. The game mechanics are a lot more fluid. In the first game, it was kind of clunky, let’s be honest. But the combat is seamless here. Not much else to say. All in all. I was a roller coaster of emotions during my full 32 hours. I couldn’t stop playing. I am sad to see this get so many negative reviews with no basis for the negativity besides homophobic view points and leaked spoilers. Please, if you liked the Last of Us. You HAVE to play this game in its entirety. Thank you Naughty Dog
Графика 10/10 Геймплей 3/10 (к сожалению по сравнению с первой частью ничего нового) Сюжет 0/10 (абсолютно вторичен и к сожалению не интересен) Если первая часть игры относительно играбельна, за счет отличной графики и анимации, за первую половину не успеваешь от игры "устать", то вторая часть, по геймплею - это повтор первой, только играешь за другого героя. И это уже начинает сильно напрягать, устаешь от повторяющегося геймплея. Вторая часть игры не нужна, она затягивает игру. Перестал играть на задание вместе с беременной. Дальше прошел по "ютубу". Сюжет - ничего нового, как история рассказана - мне не понравилось. PS Слишком реалистично сделаны убийства. PSS Слишком много "сильных" женщин. Я не хочу играть в симулятор убийств женщин !!!!
+1. Graphics and sound is really good. Game play is very similar to the first game, with some improvements. Story is the games biggest problem. Its so bad that I wanted to stop playing the game. The ending is so bad it makes playing through the entire game feel unsatisfying and a waste of time.
Gameplay: 5 points Story: 0 points In my opinion, they should have just went with a new story with new characters that takes place within the same world.

Positives are the graphics in the game has to be one of the best looking games I've played in this generation of console and the voice acting is also very good. The Gameplay is mostly the same as the last one and like the last one it's passable. Negative is simply for a story based driven game the story has the worst writing I've seen in a video game and the change in characters behaviour is unbelievable and then the ending is simply awful.
I played through the whole game and wanted to stop at every turn, for no payoff at the end. I've had an easier time digesting RE6. The graphics and gameplay mean nothing if you have to force yourself to get through it and never want to play it again. For a story based game, that is the aspect that this game lacks the most.
As a game this is above average. The game always gives the feeling that the world is inhabitant and the places visited feel "real". The story on the other hand always feels surreal, character making decisions they wouldn't have in the world of the previous one. The world has been in this state for 24 years. By now only those that have learned to survive, to be decisive and to be viscous, to be conserving and to be cautious are left, they are "the last of us". In this game Joel and Ellie have already found a place to call their home, where they do not have to cautious around everybody and can let their guard down, but they are still aware of the rest of the world and what it means to be out there as they have experienced it for most of their lives, yet they make decisions that even in their rage and blood lust seem more than out of place than ever before. This game has made the commitment to deconstruct Joel as much as possible and telling the player how awful he is or was, ignoring the end of the previous game telling us to decide for our selves. In this game Joel is not portrayed as father who cared about Ellie but as a father paranoid about what would happen to her if people found out about her immunity. In the first one Joel and Ellie chose to not talk about her "condition" and frankly were prob indifferent if people found out. There mindsets have changed just to give players the impression that Ellie is uncomfortable around Joel. This very much is the point i am most disappointed about and the reason i am unhappy about this game. Joel was a monster and nobody denied it, but that was what he needed to be to survive and at the end of the day he was a monster so Ellie could live, but naughty dog changed it from a Father doing anything to save his daughter to a lunatic that killed the last hope of humanity and is a bad father. The only line they delivered perfectly was when Joel was faced by Ellie and he said he would do it all over again. This score is for Joel.
The game is amazing, it's just another Naughty Dog masterpiece. Love the gameplay, graphics and the story it's brutal and understandable. A easy 10/10.
I really hated the game. More specifically the narrative. Yes, the game is fun, even Abby's story line but I truly didn't care for Abby's story line. The ways Naughty Dog manipulates and forces you to do things you would never do is a huge let down. The ending will depress the hell out of you and leave you not ever wanting to pick up this game again. I honestly wished Part 2 was never made and the last of Us ended the way it ended. This game is not worth full price; alot of resells out there
Personajes como joel y ellie Irreconocibles en esta secuela. les han cambiado su naturaleza.. Gráficos brutales detalles por donde los veas IA: inteligencia artificial muy buena si se juega en realista ambientación brutal super inmersa jugabilidad: sobresaliente audio y banda sonora: muy buena pero no memorable Historia:no es la mejor pero sin duda es el punto mas bajo.. el juego tiene una pésima narrativa hasta no terminar el juego no entenderás la historia con un pésimo orden de secuencias de como se va desarrollando la historia que dejara mas de uno confundido con los personajes y su futuro
Let's get it out of the way the story is not even close to the original with emotional impact and this is down to poorly written characters who make stupid decisions. But for someone who has been gaming since the 80s no games story has come close to the original for me personally so maybe my expectations were far too high in regards to how I wanted Joel's story to end. If you just look at the game on its graphics, sound, gameplay etc... its an amazing game that is a great send off to the ps4 console even if not to Joel and Ellie.
What a piece of &^£*&^$. If you liked TLOU, do not waste your time with this pathetic excuse for a follow-up. I don't really need to mention the issues. again, do I ?! The story is horrible. I've already deleted it without finishing (I had NO desire to play past a certain point).
OK game, I bought the ps4 pro limited Edition with game. The game play movement is hit and miss and why put political points in? Its a game so u can get out of this world for a little bit of time. Games should not do this.

El juego tiene exelente calidad en los gráficos pero el argumento y narrativa es un punto desfavorable, mi fundamento es que los personajes presentan grotescas contradicciones y poco sentido común en sus decisiones. Matan a 500 personas para perdonar a una o matar 500 personas y decir que es hora de volver a casa sin haber eliminado al principal objetivo es poco sensato. Tiene muy poco atractivo la trama.
This cannot be a normal review. All of the outside media surrounding this game affects your enjoyment of the game. Or at least mine. First off I'm not a person who cares about spoilers. Second off I'm not a Last of us fan. The only reason I have the first game is because it came bundled with my PS4. I liked what I played of the game but I play games for the game play not the story. That's why I love Nintendo & especially Mario. You watch the setup for the game and then you just play. If I want to watch a movie I'll watch a movie. If I want politics I'll read or watch some politics. I could stand the story in The Last Of Us because it was hopeful & conveyed maternal male instincts & loss. I'm a father myself & I could feel for Joel. I did not finish the game because the game play just wasn't fun enough for me to get through it. The story was good enough for me to go online and youtube how it ended. So emotional impact for the original game 9/10. Yet for the Last Of Us 2 I can say that I feel Joel should have given her to the Fireflys and been done with it. (but that would have been out of character right?). The semi-open part of the game is the BEST. Killing the Whistlers are this games' Clickers. And that's just sad in it's own ways. When human characters are scarier than the monsters you're doing something wrong. If you could cut out the story and just play the game it's a 6 or 7/10. I suggest you just skip all the cutscenes and dialogue if you want a good experience. There is no hopefulness or positive emotional impact in this game. Kills are cool. Music your typical horror fare. So blaaah! With the exception of acoustic moments. Note, I did not finish this game either. Was not fun enough to get me through with a story I wanted to keep skipping. Also I didn't pay for it because I borrowed it from a friend who doesn't want it back.

- Femifacistic game. Open opression of men. - LGBTQ propaganda. - Disgusting plot. - Step back in gameplay development. + Beautiful environment, my compliments for this part of developers and artisis, sry for that.

Graphics are good but thats to be expected from the 1st game to now but everything else has destroyed. Terrible story, shady tactics by the company. overall game is a shell of what it used to be and what it could have been.

This is still the gold standard of triple A games in terms of gameplay. It took the simple game mechanics of the first and improved on them immeasurably, utilising them in an infinitely more dynamic world with satisfying and gorgeous level/encounter design. [MINOR SPOILERS FROM HERE] However, since The Last of Us, there have been a lot of releases that have been superlative storytellers. From Red Dead Redemption 2 to Outer wilds to even something as expansive as The Witcher 3 to gorge yourself on. Part 2 never reaches the heights of the first game and is subordinate to even more comparable releases in this regard. The "if you're out for revenge, prepare two coffins: one for your quarry, and the other for yourself" storyline is done to death in infinitely better westerns than TLOU2 and it mostly feels like Naughty Dog has a load of emotional check boxes it wants to fill, giving the story a less organic feel. I don't understand this recent, I think, desire that writers often have to show the humanity in all of the monsters that they create. The sequences with Abby are arduous for this reason. I simply don't care about the connection that her and her group had with the dog that I killed earlier on in the game, which they realistically brought out with them to either a) die b) maul Ellie's face off. It's so lazy. Yes, Abby’s a person trying to survive in a world only slightly more hostile than our own, but anybody can appear sympathetic, you don't need to debase and derail the momentum of a narrative and take me on a massive gameplay diversion (10+ hours easily) just to tell me that. [MAJOR SPOILERS FROM HERE] The final act synthesises one of the worst and most egregious ludo-narrative dissonances between authorial intent, what the game is actually asking you to do at any given moment and how it’ll make you feel that I've ever seen in a video game. For e.g. a fail-state existing in the final desperate confrontation between Abby and Ellie, so that if you mess up in dodging a strike or two, you die and have to beat Abby over and over again until you get it right, is just torture porn. Nothing more. Particularly after it’s actually Ellie that forces the fight from Abby, who is to too weak and tired to care anymore, no doubt written this way in acknowledgement that there were still going to be some players who wanted their shot at harming Abby for what she did to Joel. Developers/coders probably missed birthdays and stuff under crunch for this kind of **** and that’s embarrassing. It tries so forcefully to emphasise a liberal idea of shared humanity during some of the most monstrous moments that it actually comes across as not caring about the fate, wellbeing or audience goodwill for *any* of the characters (aside from Joel but he has long-since passed). They’re simply empty vessels for a consistently manipulative game, to the point where it relies heavily on flashbacks to hold any true emotional weight, reminiscing on a time when Naughty Dog had loftier goals than this tripe. Having said all of that, the very, very final few tender moments–the game drags and has about 10 presumed endings like Return of the King– I could see working and hitting the right note if the 20 hours (of a 30 hour game) that preceded it was better-written. Also, Ellie and Dina are mostly great and the banter that they share together outside of the cutscenes is sweet. That's it. Those are the only redeeming qualities for the majority of Part 2. I basically never agree with review-bombs like this in user scores. They're almost always infantile and reactionary. However, in this instance, I'm inclined to agree. Though there certainly is a lot of "this is SJW fanfare", I think they're incoherently touching on the sense that TLOU2 is awfully ham-fisted and moralising in a tacky way. And they're right. Every games journalist who has touted this as a masterpiece for the pleasure of £60 a pop is a bare-faced liar because make no mistake, if you cared about Ellie and her essential goodness: Naughty Dog is taking you for a fool. If you like dogs: they are laughing at you as they p*ss in your eyes. If you wanted a sequel that was greater than the sum of its parts and had something actually meaningful to say: Naughty Dog wants you dead.
I'll make this simple..dont listen to these people hating on this game. They havent played it. This is clear. This game is nothing short of a masterpiece. It IS one of the greatest games of all time. The acting is award worthy. The grapics are almost too realistic. Ive played many games and have never seen graphics look THIS GOOD. The gameplay is greatly improved from the first game. When you kill someone in this game, you feel the weight of it, and I have never felt that in a game before. If you thought the first game was intense, this takes it to another dimension. Now, about those "leaks". Yeah, some of them were true. Yet..it doesnt affect the game. Sorry, not sorry. If you are that affected by "LGBT" or "a tranny with a golf club", youre just ignorant. YOU DONT LIKE THE STORY BECAUSE IT DIDNT GO YOUR WAY! That is all it is. This is a game set in the middle of the end of the world. What did you expect? Sunshine and rainbows? Game is again..a masterpiece. This isnt a debate. Just deal with it.


I bought the game for story based on part 1 and I lost hope and they made me more angry when they made me play the game as the character who killed the main character and ther is no bonding between characters they r just ther in the level no interaction nothing the graphics is good but what abt the story this is an story driven game It’s absolutely wrong on naughty dog Sony should have involved if something drastic story change and mercy is wrong when u love a character so much u can’t play the game as the killer that’s sucks and ruined but why the ending was mercy so now her nightmare r Goan for Eli **** I hate this game the game play is good but plz never create a story so drastically worst like this very bad experience I am not an Xbox fanboy I play only ps games from ps1 I am only bought Sony till date because they gave me story and amazing experience plz don’t make another mistake like this
First things first, the story isn’t as bad as the leaks make it out to be. There is a death that is handled somewhat undeserved but that is the only thing story wise that drops this score. The gameplay is very satisfying and melee combat is very gratifying, however brutally realistic to a degree that hasn’t been seen before. Much more smooth and terrifying than the first game. Halfway through this game my actions that felt justified were questioned as I experienced something quite different from the usual formula, but suits this games messaging. And this is a very graphically advanced game, with believable animation. The exploration was actually interesting and rewarding for those who like to search for extra items and stories. There was a point, however, where the story changes drastically and my work felt like it’s reward was delayed. The supposed LGBT agenda is not pushed whatsoever and only mentioned briefly. Overall, the leaks don’t truly show this game’s masterfully crafted world and is definitely worth the time to play. A must buy.

7 years of evolution from first part to drop all the pros. Characters, characters interactions, side characters, etc. The only good new mechianc is dogs and they're completely dissapers in second part of the game. Unbelievable fail.
They destroyed Joel character and make you play as his killer wtf... Worse writing ever
Tanto tempo de espera pra fazer esse final tosco, e lamentável ( simplesmente lamentável )
I'm at the half way point. 15h20min in. And the story is mind blowing. Certainly has made me want to seek revenge. The brutality is exactly what I'd expect the human race to crumble into from a world ending event. It's an emotional roller coaster. There is so much misinformation about this game, to clarify Abby does not appear to be transgender, there is certainly nothing to suggest it after the 'tracking' chapter. She's more like Sarah Connor on steroids
Graphics - 9/10 + Great graphics overall, perfect shadows/light effects, detailed textures and beautiful landscapes. + Very natural animations, and perfect facial expressions in both cutscenes, and during gameplay (for example during steaths kills). - Experience some minor pop up issues [-1pts]. Sound - 10/10 + Perfect sound design, very detailed sound effects (for example, it's possible to crack the safes by listening to the clicks, no need to find the code) + Great music, perfect fit. + Awesome voice acting. Gameplay - 6/10 + Very responsive controls, great shooting, weapon sway feels very natural. + Encounters are challenging, especially when engaged in open combat. - Stealth, however, is serviceable; throw distractions, stealth kills and silenced weapons, there is just one possible way to stealth kill, no option to do a stealth kill from above for example. [-1pts] - IA don't react to sound, except for bottles/bricks, running or shooting. You can drop from a ledge or into the water right behind enemies and they don't react. [-1pts] - IA don't react to your flashlight. [-1pts] - All the issues above combined makes extremely easy to exploit the IA, for example, throwing a bottle, then a molotov, is a very effective tactic for most of the game [-1pts] Level design - 10/10 + Maps are perfectly designed, feels much bigger than really is, provides many different ways to approach the encounters, with very organic interactive points (ledges, vaults, hiding spots, etc). + Interesting puzzles, nothing complex, but also not too easy. + Different enemy types keeps things varied and interesting for the whole game. Storyline - 0/10 [HEAVY SPOILERS AHEAD] [HEAVY SPOILERS AHEAD] [HEAVY SPOILERS AHEAD] [HEAVY SPOILERS AHEAD] - Joel dies too early in my opinion, the very little build up for the moment, the way it happens don't fit the character at all, Joel would never give his real name surrounded by a bunch of strangers with mean looks on their faces. Totally out of charracter. [-3pts] - This one major flaw in my opinion, Abby storyline is very little internwined with Ellie storyline, only happens at the very end, felt like a huge missopportunity. The whole time, while playing Abby section, I kept thinkins "When this is gonna end and go back to the main plot?" [-3pts] - Also Tommy, I think he should have played a bigger role during Abby storyline, she should be the one leading the defense against Tommy's attack. Instead we get what feels like a "side quest" with Liv/Yara [-2pts] - Some huge plot holes, how did Amy get to the Aquarium? After you banged Owen, you leave to help Liv and Yara, then come back and suddenly Amy is there. The area was supposed to be crawling with Scars, you even got captured trying to reach the Aquarium yourself (only to be saved by Liv and Yara). How a pregnant woman got there without any trouble, and aparently faster than Abby? How Tommy survived a headshot? How did he get back to Jackson? [-1pts] - The flashbacks should be the game storyline as they are way more interesting than the main storyline. [-1pts] [END SPOILERS] [END SPOILERS] TOTAL - 35/50 = 7/10 PS: Changed the score to ZERO due to recent Druckmann declations on the media
в игре очень хорошая графика, но очень слабо проработан сюжет во 2й части игры минимальное количество времени уделено на сюжетные детали
В этой игре есть что-то для каждого! Только для нормальных людей тут мало чего. Раньше Сони делали мыльное кинцо, а это получилось графонистым кинцом, но лучше от этого не стало.
Первая часть в принципе не нуждалась в продолжении, это была отличная закрытая история, оставляющая размышления о своей морали на совести игрока. Правильно ли сделал Джоел или нет - каждый решал сам для себя. Даже без учёта обильной левой пропаганды, про которую и без меня уже много сказано, сюжет игры получился крайне посредственным, не имеет и толики глубины первой части. Персонажи не вызывают каких-либо эмоций и сочувствия, прописаны крайне слабо, кто умрёт, а кто останется жив вы поймёте сразу. При всём этом игра крайне затянута. Проработка фракций и их мотивация находится даже ниже уровня какого-нибудь Metro Exodus. Какого-либо графического прорыва, что был у первой части тут тоже нет. В геймплейном плане разбавили разве что собаками, а в остальном эта всё та же первая часть с её достоинствами и недостатками. Гайки всё так же волшебным образом материализуются в оптические прицелы, можно таскать на спине целый арсенал, но к каждому оружию можно носить по 5-10 патронов, ветки прокачки не вариативны, а некоторые и вовсе бесполезны. Стелс всё такой же бутылочный, а перестрелки нудные. Никакой работы над ошибками, увы, не произвели. Просто надругательство над первой частью и идеальный пример того, что некоторым произведениям сиквел не нужен, а то и вовсе противопоказан.


Cant belive what they did to our characters, i am actually spechless. Let that be a warning for other devolpers, that politics, feminism, and other stuff have nothing to do in a Videogame
gráficos incríveis, cenários impressionantes, mas uma história sem pé nem cabeça, personagens que não cativam e um vilão que a produtora tentou nos fazer aceitar, e uma escolha infeliz de matar um personagem importante para construir uma narrativa sem fundamento, não, infelizmente não são só gráficos que contribuem para que o jogo mereça uma avaliação de alto nível.
I don't even need to explain it if you've played or watched any of the game you know how much is wrong with it, plot wise, gameplay wise, character wise and the message they're trying to send as well. It's like the Last Jedi all over again. Absolute garbage I'd rather watch Game of Thrones Season 8 every day for the rest of my life than play this game ever again.
Loved the first part very much! But this plot and story for the second part? Who wrote this? I dont get it,who wanted this,gamers or some mad feminist? So dissapointed and angry,mixed feelings. You destroyed a beutiful game. Well done ND
Absolutely disgusting game, disgusting people in charge, and disgusting companies giving this game a perfect score. Neil Druckman is the most ego centrical game director ive ever seen and i will never support one of his products

Критики подсасывают разрабам, больше 5-6 эта игра не заслуживает и шедевром точно не является. Графика не очень, стелс тоже. Консоль пыхтит как сучара.
Анимация, графика, сам геймплей очень хорош, сюжет(без учета лгбт) так себе, с ним еще хуже, если играть только, ради сюжета, то не советую, но с совокупностью всех других аспектов, эта игра заворожит вас
La Jugabilidad Es Tan Bella Y Es Simplemente Magnífica, Única Pero La Historia No Esta A La Altura Del Primer The Last Of Us Y Era El Príncipal Punto Fuerte Del Juego, No Me Gusto
the game's story is the worst that I've experienced in a very long time but I'm giving it a 4 because of how much of a technical masterpiece and the accessibility options which are amazing
Graphics, presentation, immersion, voice acting all amazing!! Congratulaions naughty dog!! The gameplay and story for me disappoints :( Wait to buy cheaper :)

I don’t know why ppl hate this game I loved it. The level design is the best I’ve ever played the animation is the best I’ve ever seen but some of the story I didn’t like still an amazing game

I've never in my life played a game that made me feel anger, hate, love, anxiety and sadness like The Last of Us Part II. This game makes you hate it at points, like not even wanting to pick up the controller again, this is the point though...it makes you feel so many things like no game, movie, book or tv show has before. This game is not perfect and honestly I did like the first game better, that said this game is still phenomenal. Think about this, if it were different characters I believe all of this hate towards Naughty Dog wouldnt be there, it would be nothing but praise. Not only that before spouting off hate and review bombing he game once you are finished sit with it for a while. It takes time to digest everything that happened, no it doesn't leave you with a good feeling at the end but it isnt supposed to. It is supposed to make you contemplate what just happened and in the end it is about the cycle of violence and how violence begets violence. In this world there are no heroes and no villains, just people trying to survive and it gives you that perspective because in the end everyone thinks they are doing right unless they are just evil but all the characters in this game are just people none of which are evil and they all believe that they are in the right. So I beg you to just play the game and once finished let it sit with you before making your final conclusion on it, because in my opinion this game is phenomenal. The gameplay is awesome, the animations, the stealth, omg the enemies. When you are playing stealth and the WLF flank you and look for the people you killed it is intense. Anyway in my opinion most of these 0 ratings are people that didn't play the game or cant get past the fact that they killed Joel. "Joel is a **** person"(quote from Tess). And got himself in a heap of trouble when he murdered an entire militia group. PLAY THE GAME IT IS WORTH IT. You will feel so many things throughout, it is really remarkable how they manipulate you and the story to make you feel such intense feelings.
O MELHOR jogo que eu já joguei, os gráficos são excelentes, a história além de ser muito ela te prende todo o momento, os personagens e seus desenvolvimentos são fantásticos e o final é ainda mais legal!! A naughty dog está de parabéns mais uma vez!!!

Haha. This is basically bad fan fiction. This game is absolute garbage. The story is honestly hilariously stupid. I can’t imagine writing this and thinking i was an “artist”. Stop making games.

The best game for PS4. Thank you Naughty Dog for create this great game. The history is crude but it's a possible reality, for nice and peaceful histories view Disney+.
Nota de 10! eu recomendo o jogo, graficos lindos historia cativante a banda sonora linda... Um jogo repleto de emoçoes.
Played through it once, to summarize: • poor gameplay • too much (left-wing) politics • disgusting scenes (and not in a good way). • Good graphics
After an extremely rocky-road to release, filled with delays, leaks, bad-press, and hate (ironically enough), the last of us part 2 has finally been released and i have just completed it today at 1 AM in the morning. I can thankfully say it was worth the wait. [limk omitted per site rules] The Last of Us Part 2 starts off with Joel informing Tommy about what exactly transpired at the end of part 1. Which as a we know, was a divisive and not easy decision to make. Does he lose another “daughter,” this time for the greater good, or does he put his self-interest above a world that is already too far deep into the **** To me, both choices would’ve been understandable. But one ends up having mass consequences. At the beginning of the last of us part 2, ellie and joel’s relationship is strained and you can feel the tension evident in the wonderfully performed cut scenes with some of the most advanced motion capture technology to date, also accompanied by another fantastic soundtrack from Gustavo Santaolla. . The game introduces you to the world of the last of us part 2 through a lengthy tutorial-like, opening chapter. Where Ellie goes on a peaceful patrol with her love interest Dina, taking out a few infected and clickers in the typical last of us style gameplay. In this sequence, while the gameplay, isn’t the most exciting (yet), we are re-introduced to the extremely detailed environments and world-building that we’d expect from naughty dog. In this game though, they really go above and beyond what they’ve done in the past, rivaling, or even surpassing rockstar in this aspect. Naughty as well even throughs in a few easter-eggs that many of us will at least chuckle at, or have a smile on our face. Unfortunately, this smile on our face is quickly turned upsidedown when we are introduced to Abby and friends, who are on a haunt to fulfill a mission of revenge, even playing as her throughout this opening sequence. If you saw the spoilers like me, you knew exactly what this was going to escalate into. Abby ultimately crosses into this horde of infected, which starts off one of the many extremely tense set pieces in the last of us part 2, accompanied by a heart-pulsing soundtrack also from Mr. Robot’s Mac Quayle. I honestly can’t emphasize enough how incredible the combat music is for this game. You can really feel the tension and sweaty palms. Abby, is fortunately saved by our very own, fan-favorite Joel, and then Uncle Tommy who are also out on patrol at this time. This portion of the game is honestly the only major gripe i have with the writing and execution. Tommy, amidst the snow-storm and infected horde, tells Abby his and Joel’s name. Joel and Tommy ultimately agree to shamelessly seek refuge from the dangerous horde, and terrible snowstorm, at Abby’s place, unaware of the fate that awaits. While this is happening, Ellie and Dina are having one of the many intimate moments of the game, only to be disrupted by Jesse, who informs them of Tommy and Joel’s absence. I could unfortunately only want to punch my wall at this moment due to just how stupidly Joel dies. At the time of me experiencing his death in the game, I was angry. Both at the game and at myself for buying into this lazy written game. This whole sequence I felt was extremely rushed and he died too early, the execution could’ve been better. Thankfully enough, the game is only uphill from this point on, both in terms of gameplay, and writing. Ellie and Dina arrive in Seattle after Tommy, and we are immediately re-introduced to what we love about Naughty Dog games. The Seattle area features a linear-world similar to Uncharted The Lost Legacy. It features many side objectives, with an exploration into optional areas that pay off. This is accompanied by very tender and quirky dialogue moments between Ellie and Dina, extremely layered and detailed stores and environments, satisfying combat that now features a nicely refined gameplay system that includes a dodge and jump button that helps separate ellie from joel’s gameplay in the first game. Allowing her to be extremely stealth like a snake, or to get to areas out of reach in hopes for supplies, cute cards filled with easter-eggs, safes, or notes that fill in the gaps between the ongoing past and present battles in Seattle that include WLF, FEDRA, and the seraphites. A lot of them even include extremely interesting stories about personal experiences in the world, such as the story of Boris and his friends. The story of Boris and his friends is one of the many extremely layered optional side collectibles that you will not regret reading into. It seems that Metacritic has a limit. All in all, it's a 9/10 game, few weird pacing moments, but everything else it's a very memorable and special experience won't be forgotten for a while. I can only feel it'll be loved as time goes on.

Everything is great except the story and the hidden agenda. The enemy A.I, environment, graphic, combats, crafting, are great but the story and woke political hidden agendas ruined it.
Конечно тема sjw бросается в глаза и я бы поставил игре 9б баллов, но нашествие твинк аккаунтов с их нулями вынуждает ставить 10 для поддержки проекта
A game that is way too centered around unnecessary agenda that should not be prioritized in a game. A game should deliver its player base enjoyment, not force some views upon them. This game destroys the Original Franchise and is one of the if not the worst sequels to a wonderful first Part. Last of us 2 is truly a bad game.
If you have played the first game and liked it, then most likely you will hate this one. If by chance you have never played part 1 then you might love this game. The story of this game is absolutely garbage. One of the worse games I ever played. Just wow.
Müthiş bir oyun. Atmosferi beni büyüledi , grafikler müzikler karakterler çok iyiydi. Gereksiz bir hater kitlesi oyunu bilerek gömmeye calısıyor çoğu oynamamış kişiler zaten ama bu neslin sonuna damga vuran bir oyun oldu.
An insult to fans, and proof of corruption in mainstream games media. The game is beautiful looking, but it is a trainwreck held back by idiotic writing that's insulting to the viewer's intelligence. On top of that the creators' victim complex over the bad reviews, led to many people being attacked for simply disliking the game. TLOU2 is a disgusting creation that deserves to be forgotten.
I just finished the game and all I could say that this is a masterpiece. I was shocked by some of their narrative choices at first. That said, I think the story is a masterpiece of pacing and emotional impact. Anyone who is affected by the narrative choices that Naughty Dog made to the extent of labeling this game as "bad" is either immature or didn't play the game to the end. This is certainly the best video game I ever played and I have been gaming for at least 27 years (since I was 10). If you haven 't played this game, do yourself a favor, ignore those cry babies and pick up a copy, you won't regret it. The graphics, gameplay, and story are all above anything else in the whole industry. Don't miss out on such a masterpiece because of some idiots who are too immature to sit their asses down and hear a story until the end.

So boring gameplay . Druckman can't make games. And killing Joel is so dumb decision
This game is amazing but one thing made it alittel bad was the death of joel
Just played through it. The game was really disappointing for me as a fan of the first one. After I saw the leaks I lowered my expectations and even with my low expectations the game got even worse than I thought. I'm still disappointed by the lazy writing of the Story especially how they handled Joel's death. Tommy and Joel wouldn't be so dumb to reveal their identities to complete strangers especially when they wear uniforms of a miliyary group which doesn't operate in the area of Jackson. There is literally no reason for them two trust the armed group of strangers. I can understand that Abby wants revenge but let's be honest her father was a moron of a doctor who had such a big ego that he wanted to kill a teenager to make a cure. He as a doctor should know that a vaccine for a fungal infection hasn't been achieved with the resources they had before the outbreak. There is literally no chance for a vaccine. And if it would be possible the dumbest thing to do would be to kill the only human known to be immune. Also it's kinda his own fault wanting to kill a girl without consent and to threaten someone who is heavy armoured person with a scalpel. You don't bring a knife to a gunfight. And Abby knows that her dad was willing to kill a girl without her knowing she would die. Many people said the context of the leaks were important. But holy **** it made the game worse. The gameplay was okayisch but at the point where we switch to play as Abby I just wanted the game to end. Story was **** and gameplay got boring. Tlou2 is the first game that made me to switch difficulty to just run through it to get to the end. The end wasn't worth playing to be honest but I was glad the game was over. The game looks beutiful and has many details though. Also the soundtrack is really good like last time. These are the only reasons I give 3 points to this game. Wouldn't recommend fans of the first game to play it. Others might enjoy it more....
While the gameplay was enjoyable and I had an actual fun time playing it whenever the cutscenes didn’t start playing for those key story moments, the story wasn’t as enjoyable some stuff were pretty dumb and overall bad story writing and the old characters felt wrongly written. And the ending while when you go deeper into the story yeah made a little sense in a way but it’s definitely not what we wanted to do especially knowing how much you’ve been through in the 25 hours that it’ll take you to get to that point. But hey at least in a weird realistic human way the story makes a little more sense (in some areas) but it definitely absolutely could’ve been way better than what it was.
This game impose the creators view on all the characters, people expected their reality after an open ending in the first one, leaks and false accusation contributed to polarized reviews of people that didn't even play it a second. personally I played it 2 times and got the platinum trophy. the game is a big upgrade under every front, the gameplay is fun and rewarding, AI is smarter than I expected to cause different situations every time you play it. the story hits you hard where it hurts and keeps you motivated all the way to the end. at first things could seem unjustifiable but when you let it sit for a few hours you see and rethink at every detail finding out that everything makes sense and everything is put in context if you were concentrated enough to catch it.

im so disappointed, the game is not as good as what i expected. in addition to the bad story and the cringe dialog the game have bugs. one of the things that annoyed me that you can easily miss an area that you can discover because you thought that you may be able to get back to it (because it was implied in the dialog).
I’m one of the people who saw all the leaks, both true and false ones, and was completely turned off from buying the game. Not to mention the divisiveness of fans even after release. I didn’t want to tarnish my memory of the amazing first game. However, due to being bored because of the pandemic, and seeing most of the negative reviews from fans and Youtubers were based off not getting over Joel’s death and straight up bigotry, I decided to buy the game. The only 2 things I regret are looking at the leaks and not getting the Special Edition on launch day. This game is the greatest game I have ever played. So much so that when I heard about the review bombing happening to this game, I felt an obligation to make an account on here and give it my review. The technical side is pure perfection. This is a next-gen title on a 7 year old piece of hardware. Very little to no glitches at all during my 2 playthroughs of this game. My only complaints are that it’s 30fps and it’s pretty taxing on the PS4, so make sure to give it a clean before playing this amazing game. Graphics and animations are pretty life-like, both during gameplay and cutscenes. The acting is also top-notch. Ashley Johnson, Laura Bailey, Troy Baker and Co. deserve all the awards for best performances in a video game. Along with the set design and the perfect direction of scenes, this game blew anything we’ve had ever outta the water. Gameplay is also amazing. If you loved the first TLOU’s gameplay, you’ll love this. The crafting has been expanded, the gameplay is a lot more smooth, stealth and combat is way more satisfying, human, stalker, and dog AI is a lot smarter, level design a lot better (best I’ve ever seen tbh) and the bigger variety of types of enemies really adds to the tension of the game. The Encounters here make the first game’s look like a walk in the park. Puzzles are a lot more complex than find the ladder/plank/pallet/dumpster too, so that’s neat, too. World building is a lot better now, too. There only 4 games where I pay close attention to the collectibles; TLOU, Uncharted 4 and Lost Legacy, and this game. Remember the Ish notes from the first game? Now you have multiple interesting note “threads” throughout the game, such as Boris, Jules, and many more! The cards and coins also add to the characterization of Ellie and Abby, so it feels great collecting them too! Now, for the meat of this game, the story. If you don’t wanna read my whole review on it, just know that I think this is perhaps one of the greatest stories told in any medium, and will be a turning point for storytelling in video games. The story is very dark, and is about the cycle of violence and how tragedy can bring out the worst in people. The characters are extremely human in how they deal with these events. They don’t always make the most rational choices, but they choose to do what they do based on they’re own emotions, and this leads the 2 protagonists of this game, Ellie and Abby, to make grave decisions that doom themselves and the people around them. People tend to forget that to humanize a character isn’t just showing that they have fears, or that they have families and people they love, but also showing that they make morally questionable choices that make them seem like a bad person in other peoples‘ eyes. Doing so isn’t demonizing them, it’s showing how perspective can change EVERYTHING. Without spoiling to much, the parallels between Ellie and Abby, Abby and Joel, & Ellie and Lev are extremely well done. They are all truly 2 sides of the same coin. Empathy is the name of the game, and the moment I started to allow yourself to empathize with both sides, is the moment everything clicks. The moment I realized that Joel’s killers aren’t “evil” hunters, and are just as guilty/innocent as Ellie and co. by the end of the game, is the moment I realized this is something special. Ellie’s story is about her downfall, and Abby’s is about her redemption. Both have to deal with the consequences of their actions. It takes the first game’s moral ambiguity to a whole ‘nother level. There truly are no good or bad side. Save for the Rattlers, every faction has a protagonist or an ally to the player. this helps you see their perspective on the world and understand them. This write-up has gone on for too long, so I’m going to end it with this: BUY THIS GAME, and BUY IT AGAIN ON THE PS5. I cannot recommend it enough. Want a next-gen experience right now? Well, here it is. Just be ready to get you heart crushed, though, especially if you’re as invested in the world as I am. This is personal my best game of the generation and probably of all-time. Edit: Accessibility for the impaired in this game is something that should be an industry standard. So kudos to Naughty Dog leading the pack.
Cant deny this game looks amazing, combat is faultless and engrossing with the only floor which is very frustrating is the story. Poorly written, very complicated, the characters have no appeal and it feels like the writers forgot about the original. What a shame. Very very dissapinted. Naughty dog dropped the ball and have destroyed a franchise. So sad.
Best game ever , haters gonna hate A tragedic rollercoaster story with best characters development in video game history... That create joy and sad spaces for gamers. Game has a successful advantage in horror part... Gun play and melee combat is incredible. Leve design is in a academic class level for gaming creators and environment is best in 8 generation. At the end this is a unforgettable game that forever change video game industry's path
A worthy follow-up to a PS3/4 classic. The two contrasting story of Ellie and Abby that comes to a head in an epic final combat is one of the best in gaming history.
When the E3 2018 trailer for this game came out and showed Ellie and Dina kissing, there was a small yet vocal part of the gaming community upset over this game, because they believed there was an "agenda." Very reminiscent of the Gamers Rise Up group (GRU for short) Some of these people in the GRU were the same ones upset about Nadine from Uncharted 4, they thought Naughty Dog was pushing an agenda because in their mind a woman can't beat a man in hand-to-hand combat, even if she is the leader of a mercenary group. The written leaks (which are all fake with the exception of Joel dying) had everybody in an uproar. These people claimed to be upset about the game, and didn't want to buy the game because they thought the story was bad, which is a clear lie. As evident by the many people that made videos, comments and twitter posts about the leaks, they were upset only for 2 things: the death of Joel and the (false) leak that claimed Abby was a transgender that you play as during the last half of the game to hunt down and kill Ellie. Once GRU got called out for trashing a game for frivolous reasons, they tried to switch up and pretend it was the crunch culture of Naughty Dog that upset them. Many more false rumors came out, about Naughty Dog not paying their employees, and Anita Sarkeesian helping with the game. There were also false rumors about how Neil forced other people out. There has been no proof to back up any of these rumors. As for GRU being upset at Naughty Dog's crunch culture, it's quite clear these people didn't give a damn about that, considering that they sent hate and death threats towards the same people they claimed to feel bad for. Notice how GRU hasn't mentioned the crunch culture at Naughty Dog since April. They hated a game that wasn't even out yet for garbage reasons and tried to pivot. Channels got striked for showing leaked footage and GRU, insistent on seeing this game fail, pivoted towards that being the reason why they hated the game. Another pivot. This angry minority of people in the gaming community began to go on a crusade for months, spoiling the game for other people, sending death threats to people at Naughty Dog, harassing the voice actors and shouting out some pretty vile things towards gay people and transgender people. The reviews come out and GRU called the ones with early copies, shills. They claimed they were on Sony's payroll and wouldn't say anything bad about their games, which is the dumbest thing I ever heard considering the ones that got early copies have been critical towards Sony exclusives multiple times in the past. GRU clinged on to the reviewers that didn't enjoy the game, and used that as more fuel that they were right about the game. Keep in mind, the full game still isnt even out. This game hasn't even been out a full day and it has more user reviews than The Last of Us does, and that game has been out for 7 years. Most of the user reviews are giving this game a straight up 0 out of 10, or a 4 out of 10, and their comments are filled with bs. You can clearly tell in these comments that these people have not played the game, or even seen a walkthrough of the game because they parrot comments from reviewers that were critical on the game, or they get info about the game blatantly wrong. I don't know how anyone can value user reviews after seeing this game is clearly being reviewed bombed by a group of people who have believed since 2016, that Naughty Dog is pushing an agenda. This game is easily the best game I've played all year, will that remain the case after Ghost of Tsushima and Cyperpunk comes out? Idk, but right now it's easily the game of the year. Everything about this game is perfect, I enjoyed the story, but the story is not a perfect. I feel like they could have executed some things a little better, specifically when it comes to Abby. I think after the initial cutscene with Joel giving Ellie the guitar, it should have showed Joel's rampage through the hospital from Abby's point of view. Then hop into Abby getting split up from Owen and then you switch to playing as Ellie. For those of you who have legit concerns and are trying to gauge whether or not to like this game, don't listen to the people spouting hate and writing the game off as having nothing good going for it. But don't listen to the people calling it a perfect game either, because it's not. If you liked the gameplay of the 1st one, you're gonna like the gameplay in this one. And I feel like even if you dont like the story (for legitimate reasons, not because you think an agenda is being pushed) the gameplay will make up for it.
Невероятно, непревзойденно, потрясающе — примерно такие мысли роились у меня в голове, когда я с открытым ртом наблюдал за финальными титрами. Знаете, что? Это лучшее, во что я играл. Просто лучшее. Naughty Dog, вы офигели делать такие игры? Что вы творите со своим перфекционизмом? Как мне теперь во что-то другое играть? Я ведь буду ждать такого же уровня исполнения, а его даже близко не будет. 10/10 по всем пунктам без преувеличений. Больше, чем просто шикарная игра. Если вы всем сердцем любите первую часть, то вторая получилась вдвое круче. Не слушайте завистливых и слабоумных хейтеров. Покупайте и наслаждайтесь стопроцентным шедевром. А я, пожалуй, сяду за перепрохождение.
yikes, gameplay copy&paste from first game, boring game, forgettable characters, story is trash in a story driven game. music is depressing. literally theres no redeeming qualities in this game This game came out from NAUGHTY DOG?? Shameful
Absolutely TOP action/adventure game! Great characters, graphics, design, sound, and all these thing in LONG spellbinding journey. ( I feel it is like whole Uncharted trilogy in one game). I am really satisfy! 10/10 Masterpiece!
The most important part of a game like this, which was also touted, is the story... If this doesnt prove what a HACK Druckman is I dont know what will. Pathetic excuse for a story, pathetic one note characters, and pathetic virtue signaling in hopes of appearing "woke" I assume. Such a disservice to the game and gamers alike.




Does not deserve anything above a 7. Combat is good, nothing new tho. Same with crafting but with improvements. Graphics were phenomenal, especially animations. Very excited for the future of games. No one can argue this. When it comes to the story, Druckman clearly was clearly trying to push a political agenda. Very cringe and does not belong. Story in itself wasn't bad, but they could've changed or re ordered the events. Pacing wasn't that great and the new characters sucked big pp.
This game can amaze you with a deep plot, incredibly interesting and improved gameplay, which was in the first part, unexpected plot twists, etc. There are few games with such a good plot that you can take apart for a very long time and find small important details both in the game mechanics itself and in the plot. I love the second part, as well as the first 10/10
"Nie wiem czy kiedykolwiek Ci wybaczę... Ale zamierzam spróbować." Nic tak dobrze nie streszcza fabuły nowego The Last of Us, jak to jedno zdanie z epilogu. I zupełnie nie gra tu roli, kto do kogo je wypowiedział - zabrzmiałoby równie dobrze w ustach wszystkich głównych postaci. Obejrzawszy napisy końcowe z jednej strony dziwi mnie niezmiernie reakcja "fanów z metacritic", a z drugiej, niestety nie dziwi wcale. Pozornie (i początkowo) może się wydawać, że Naughty Dog uderza tu w zupełnie inne tony niż w jedynce, że niczym młoda Ellie szarpie struny gitary bez wyczucia i wprawy, wrzucając w melodię zasłyszane ostatnio dźwięki. Tak jednak nie jest, zdecydowanie, a twierdzić mogą tak jedynie Ci, którzy zapomnieli już, jak gorzkie było w istocie zakończenie części pierwszej. O czym zatem jest Part II? O stracie i radzeniu sobie z nią, o niesprawiedliwości, przemocy, i uprzedzeniach, o ślepocie nienawiści i bezcelowości zemsty oraz o spokoju jaki daje wybaczenie. W wielu miejscach jest to opowieść gorzka, nieprzyjemna i trudna w odbiorze, można wręcz powiedzieć, że mało "growa". Niemniej nie jest to opowieść słaba, nie jest to najgorsza fabuła w historii gier, postacie nie są źle napisane, a zakończenie nie jest "żenujące", jak zdają się wykrzykiwać internetowi "hejterzy". Już moment pojawienia się tych podejrzanie niskich ocen, dosłownie kilka-kilkanaście godzin po premierze, dawał do myślenia, lecz teraz - po ukończeniu fabuły jestem jeszcze bardziej pewny tego, że 90% z nich to wylana na klawiaturę żółć ludzi, którzy nie lubią gdy ktoś ma inne poglądy niż oni sami, prezentując to co ich zdaniem gorsze, jako równe. Bo Last of Us II jest bardzo równościowe, jest w pewien sposób niespotykanym dotąd w grach przypadkiem, niemal manifestem, ale nie takim wykrzyczanym w twarz na paradzie (bez różnicy czy z uśmiechem, czy z pałką), znacznie bardziej prostym, codziennym i subtelnym. Dla scenarzystów The Last of Us II wszyscy są równi - wobec śmierci, miłości, czy nienawiści, nie ma znaczenia płeć, kolor skóry, to jak ważna dla fabuły jest postać - liczy się historia i jej przesłanie. Historia napisana w sposób przemyślany i chirurgiczny, tak by to co widzimy bolało, tak byśmy kwestionowali wybory postaci, czasami się z nimi nie zgadzając, tak, by trudno było ocenić postacie, ich motywację, czy działania po kilku godzinach gry - wszystko po to, by przesłanie wybrzmiało mocniej. I za tę odwagę należą się twórcom wielkie brawa. Być może problematyczna dla części fanów jest również sama konstrukcja fabuły? Wszak i przy okazji serialowego Wiedźmina skoki czasowe były dość powszechnie (niesłusznie moim zdaniem) krytykowane. Niemniej każdy utwór warto oceniać z perspektywy całości, dostrzegając, że pewne zabiegi stylistyczne są celowym działaniem twórcy, który poprzez kolejność prezentowania treści chce odpowiednio sterować naszymi emocjami, uzyskując - szczególnie w medium tak interaktywnym jak gry wideo - efekt znacznie lepszy, niż w przypadku pełnej liniowości historii. To, że pozwala się nam patrzeć na pewne wydarzenia innymi oczami, że motywacja działań postaci wyjaśniana jest często "post-factum" - to nie przypadkowe błędy scenariusza, a świadome zabiegi mające istotne znaczenie dla puenty tej opowieści. The Last of Us Part II nie jest historią którą pokochasz, jest historią którą znienawidzisz ale jednocześnie zrozumiesz i docenisz, coraz bardziej, z każdym dniem po obejrzeniu napisów końcowych i opadnięciu emocji.
Had fun playing this game. I never played the first but watched a playthrough on YouTube.. I did try the first game back on ps3 and found it terribly overrated. This game doesn't deserve the metabombing it got at all. The graphics are f*cking incredible. The story was a bit meh and the game play was fun although nothing new in terms of it. Also Abby is easily the best character.. Ellie was just badly written. Abby has by far the best gameplay too. Please
They ruined the story and the game..it had so much potential to be the best game of the decade and beat God of war(2018). Obviously the way that joel's character was handled was downright stupid.. Its like you kill kratos in the beginning of the game. They forced you to play as Abby(which obviously is the most boring character in this franchise). You could actually notice that they tried to make her gameplay more interesting with all the weapons and boss fights but failed miserably. After wasting more than 20-25 hours , you get a messed up and unsatisfying ending. Naughty dogs -just stick to uncharted franchise; that's all you are good for. The last of us 2013(a really good game)was a fluke i guess.
See that average user score. 5.6 right now. I believe it was 3 point something when it first came out. Bunch of losers hate the game for nothing. Yet many r just xbox players or cloud players who never actually played game. Joel was never a good person, he killed innocent ppl in the first part game. So many Mr Judge giving it a low score like 0 r totally losers and **** The game has its problem, it's about the LGBT stuff and drug thing. For the story line, I don't see anything wrong with it. People die, it's not like a TV drama out there nobody dies but only the so called bad guys. Remember, real gamers enjoy the game, real losers hate the game. Keep hating cuz u r real losers.

Simply a Masterpiece. Alongside Red Dead Redemption 2, Uncharted 4, Witcher 3 and it's own remastered predecessor one of the very best games of this generation. Once again well done, Naughty Dog!
I liked the game,and what they say about it is those who are bad about lbgt and Joel's death I'm a fan of part 1 and part 2
WTF. Since when does naughty dog false advertise. They tricked us into believing it was a joel and ellie adventure. Joel dies in the first two hours of the game. Disgusted by Naughty Dog!
Это просто потрясающе. Игра поколения. Графика, сюжет, подача, такое ещё долго не смогут переплюнуть.
Forced death of Joel and inclusión innecesary, the revenge In the story is odd an innecesary


This is one of the most WOKE trash game with the best graphics that I've ever seen. Great design, moderate control with an utterly lazy storyline. Neil has lost his creativity but intended on selling a sequel, it totally makes sense for him to prefer an SJW agenda based story because he was certain that the game could stir up a lot of controversy which in turn provides free marketing. I am not homophobic or transphobic, I loved Stranger Things not just because of the story but their way of expressing true love without vulgarity. Sex scenes do not convey strong love or intimacy but good storyline does. This game sets a great example on how you could potentially ruin a great franchise with a storyline that kills off major characters for absolutely stupid reasons. Joel and Ellie never deserved this and they were not given justice.
The gameplay is spectacular (unrivaled as far as an action adventure game). If you love being in the universe, you'll love this game. Even if you won't like the story, buy this game. The physics and mechanics are completely 10/10 as far as I'm concerned.
I played the first game a lot of times because i couldn't get enough of it and waited all these years to play this. Hope the writers had fun playing golf with the storyline. I strongly recommend saving 60 bucks for ghost of tsushima.
Distinctly less compelling than the previous game, which was outstanding. If this were a new game, it probably would've been a "must play". But knowing it's following up from the first game, not much has been improved upon to make it solid enough. Characters likes Ellie and Dina are not relatable and game play mechanics are the same as the 5 year old game. Narrative was weak and representation of minority groups was thrust upon and felt very forced. Go to commend the technical designers for completely eliminating load screens though.
First things first, the graphics are amazing and probably the best of this console generation. The gameplay was ok, there were really fun times with combat and shooting but there are some areas of the game that feel stretched out. Music was really good, I enjoyed the music when it was being played but there is too much silence that occurs. The story is my opinion is not very good, many characters that you are supposed to like that you can't, there are too many plot holes in the story. When it came towards Abby, I had fun with her combat but other than that I didn't like her, the game is trying it's hardest too make you like Abby but it didn't work for me. Ellie became somewhat unlikeable, she makes so many choices that made me think why. Finally, many new characters are dull and the characters that are greatly written are barley given anything.

This game is straight trash. This leftist, social justice warrior company tried to pander to the brainwashed, retarded leftists in this country and destroyed a wonderful game. F naughty dog. I would NEVER purchase this train wreck of a game.
This sequel made me feel like I was watching Game Of Thrones Season 8 again- an initially beautiful & strong story, totally trashed. And no- I am not hating "because my favourite character died", or that there was LGBT representation, or that Abby was "Swoll" (I wish i could throw punches like her). I am awarding 1 score for the graphics, and 2nd score for the game play. The story, its plot-holes and other nonsensical things (like PREGNANT women going to war or a woman being A FEW WEEKS LATE on her period, venturing into a zombie-infested wild country) get absolute zero. And a special ZERO for making us play 70% of the game with characters we didn't care about. The music is fantastic though, but that's not Naughty Dog's talent, so they dont get a score for it!
-----------------ENGLISH-------------------- As a TLOU fan I can only be disappointed. And angry. For me it is a ZERO. A zero because it has thrown to the ground all my illusions accumulated since the announcement of the game. A zero because the experience of playing has been unpleasant in all narrative aspects. I have not enjoyed the game. Nor of history. A game created to please the popular "collectives". But a game should not be politicized. For the harsh reality we already have life itself. +5 years waiting for the sequel and when they give it to you they destroy it at the very beginning of the game, forcing you to play with a hated character and offering you an unsatisfactory ending. They could have made a decent game with SpinOffs, but no, they have had to tear apart the most beloved characters in favor of politicized criticism. There is no more to see the criticism of the "specialized" press compared to the criticism of the users. At first I thought that these negative reviews were due to "Fans" who wanted to burst the note, since with so little time it was impossible to rate the game. But I was wrong. With 2 hours of game you can already rate it with a suspense if you are one of those who loved the characters in the first part. The game has a sublime story, yes, worthy of a movie "blah blah blah", but now you can forget about enjoying all your favorite characters from the first part. EVERYONE. In short, **** that big. I also feel SCAMED, since in the trailers they trick you into thinking that you are going to play with some characters and then you discover that in the game those same scenes have the characters changed. I have bought a game that has misleading advertising and that should be legally punished so that it is not repeated in the future. € 70 thrown away. For me TLOU2 does not exist. The story ends at the end of TLOU1. For all these reasons, my grade is ZERO. -----------------ESPAÑOL------------------- Como fan de TLOU solo puedo sentirme decepcionado. Y enfadado. Para mí es un CERO. Un cero porque ha tirado por tierra todas mi ilusiones acumuladas desde el anuncio del juego. Un cero porque la experiencia jugando ha sido desagradable en todos los aspectos narrativos. No he disfrutado del juego. Ni tampoco de la historia. Un juego creado para contentar a los "colectivos" reivindicativos populares. Pero un juego no debería politizarse. Para la cruda realidad ya tenemos la vida misma. +5 años esperando la secuela y cuando te la dan te la destrozan al inicio mismo del juego, obligándote a jugar con un personaje odiado y ofreciéndote un final insatisfactorio. Podrían haber hecho un juego digno con SpinOffs, pero no, han tenido que destrozar los personajes más queridos en favor de las críticas politizadas. No hay más que ver las críticas de la prensa "especializada" en comparación con las críticas de los usuarios. Al principio pensé que dichas críticas negativas se debían a "Fanáticos" que querían reventar la nota, ya que con tan poco tiempo era imposible valorar el juego. Pero me equivoqué. Con 2 horas de juego ya puedes calificarlo con un suspenso si eres de los que adoraban los personajes de la primera parte. El juego tiene una historia sublime, sí, digno de película "bla bla bla", pero ya te puedes ir olvidando de disfrutar de todos tus personajes preferidos de la primera parte. TODOS. En resumen, una mierda así de grande. Además me siento ESTAFADO, ya que en los trailers te engañan para que pienses que vas a jugar con unos personajes y luego descubres que en el juego esas mismas escenas tiene los personajes cambiados. Me he comprado un juego que tiene publicidad engañosa y eso debería ser penado legalmente para que no se repita en el futuro. 70€ tirados a la basura. Para mi TLOU2 no existe. La historia termina en el final de TLOU1. Por todo ello mi nota es un CERO.
I saw the critics reviews, and saw the user reviews but thought the game was getting poor reviews for political reasons or because of the leak, so I bought it anyway. After all, I loved the first one. I was somewhat wrong. First the good: production quality is typical Naughty Dog high. Excellent graphics, sound, and the voice actors and motion capture is great for the material they are given, The bad: The story. Some may find it interesting. I found it painful. If you enjoy misery, torture, pain and death, this is the game for you. When I play a game I want to be happy, grow with the character, and feel good about it, at least at some point with a turn in the story when the bad turns to good. TLOU2 is a story with an unhappy start, and unhappy middle and an unhappy end, all the while sprinkled with misery, pain and death. There is NO happiness in this game. None. Who likes that? Apparently pro game critics who don't represent the people who play the games. I don't think this game was review bombed by social justice warriors, at least not primarily. it was legitimately hated by most who played it and then felt miserable after toughing their way through the whole thing. My rating of 4 is a true score. If it were a 0, I would have quit after an hour but it was at least good enough for me to get all the way through to the depressing ending.
It's truly disappointing what state the gaming community has come to. Last of Us 2 isn't a perfect title in my books, but at least from a narrative perspective it breaks into new territories, creating a coherent experience from the beginning until the end, with one of the best video game endings I've seen so far. It's in the gameplay where the game tends to fall apart, but in it's best moments it shines really bright. It features one of the most compelling enemy AIs I've seen so far, which generates an infinite amount of surprises. In its best moments the games challenges have the complexity of a puzzle which adapts and generates new combat situations on the go. It's the juicy emergent behaviour many designers strive for these days. At the same time TLOU2 features many questionable design decisions which carried over from Naughty Dogs old titles, but didn't age that well with the new game concept. I really dislike the choice of plants in such complex environments to indicate interactable objects. The inventory system doesn't hold up in stressful boss fights and looting is just a pain, especially chaotic environments like a hardware store. Also, the companion AI is really laking in many instances. It's saddening to see a bland incoherent title like Ghost of Tsushima get a user rating of 9.3, while a novel work like TLOU 2 gets a mediocre user score. I personally don't feel like I can trust user ratings on metacritic anymore. Whether there's a lack of trustworthiness in those reviews or whether I just grew apart from the common taste I can't tell. I certainly hope the former is the case. I also hope that the sales numbers of TLOU2 don't reflect this sentiment, because I really want to see more of this kind of work from you guys at Naughty Dog.
En primer lugar quiero dejar bien claro que The Last Of Us en mi videojuego favorito de todos los tiempos. No solo por ser un gran juego es mi videojuego favorito sino porque ademas el primer juego marco un antes y un después en mi vida y en mi forma de entender la industria del videojuego. Por lo cual intentar hacer una critica a esta segunda parte me es de una gran dificultad. Debido a esta ola incoherente de malas criticas y de un abusos excesivos. Me dispongo unos cuantos días después de haber finalizado el juego a hacer mi respectiva y única critica a The Last Of Us Part II. Creo que Naughty Dog se ha arriesgado en este juego y es verdad que han intentado abordar temas complejos y poco explorados en los videojuegos. Pero he de decir que la resolución de estos añadidos arriesgados han sido de gran admiración. Sin ser pesados y siendo coherente los temas sociales e incluso políticos que están presentes en el juego son muy sutiles y en ningún momento abusivos. Se agradece y es de admirar que este tipo de creados se arriesguen con estos temas porque realmente estos temas tendrían que ser mas explorados y detallados en la industria. Creo que respecto a la historia se nota una gran mejoría con respecto a la calidad de esta como en la forma de contarla. Dejando huella en mucha ocasiones con escenas que se recordaran por siempre. Las mecánicas sin ser muy renovadoras y siendo muchas de ellas heredadas del primer juego. Están mucho mas pulidas y mejoradas también dando lugar a mecánicas nuevas que impactan y sorprenden. Con respecto a la jugabilidad mejora muy potencialmente con respecto a la primera parte y hace el juegos mas divertido y fluido. Tengo que decir que en esta segunda parte el apartado musical se queda un poco atrás con respecto a la primera parte. Esto no quiere decir que la música sea peor sino que el apartado musical destaca menos con respecto al papel protagonista que tenia la música en su anterior entrega. Pero este tipo de carencia lo compensa con unos increíbles y obsesivos detalles técnicos y artísticos tanto en el entorno del propio juego como en sus personajes. Alejándose en muchos momentos de ser algo ficticio a algo que roza la propia realidad señalando a su vez el gran trabajo tanto actoral como artístico Pero aun así creo que en este juego la jugabilidad no es la parte mas importante. The Last Of Us destaca por sus increíbles personajes, entornos e historia y en esta segunda parte se nota como en Naughty Dog trabajan verdaderos profesionales que saben crear y contar historias de una manera única. En definitiva no me quiero enrollar mucho con esta critica porque creo sinceramente que The Last Of Us Part II es en si una obra maestra y claramente esta segunda parte superan en todos los aspectos a la primera parte. Solo que para mi la primer parte tiene un significado añadido que hace que me decante por ella. Pero por favor dejar de atacar y criticar a un juego por una intención o porque moralmente no os agrade lo que veáis en pantalla. Recordar que los videojuegos los jugamos nosotros, pero nosotros no decidimos como se hacen. Dejar ese trabajo a profesionales como la gente de Naughty Dog que ademas de hacer un increíble trabajo nos han brindado una autentica obra maestra y de lo único que han pecado es de intentar educar y enseñar a la gente que el videojuego ahora mas que nunca en un arte. Mi nota real es de 9.5
The gameplay? More of the same, and it's not necessarily bad. Graphics are good. The game takes a nosedive by having lost initial focus, and its laces with political agenda. I am sorry, the first game was a story about retaining humanity in trying times, even the DLC was excellent, but this just seems shoehorned and uncompelling and hell. This is a "Netflix adaptation tier" story that doesn't deserve this budget and quality.

Gameplay is top notch for a person who doesn't love spooky and tense situations, but the final stretch of story felt strange pacing wise in a mostly well written plot.
the game play and the graphics are cool, but the history.... , the franchise is not about vengeance, naughty-dog could create another game about vengeance, but they ruined this franchise doing that.
Um salve pra galera da SAD GAMES que ficam o dia todo falando de notinhas heheheh.
Graphics: best , no one can beat Gameplay: amazing History: we understand the director, he tried to delivery something new, but , fails whith glory,the ideia its good but the execution, wow! History and mature themes unnatural
Это лучшая игра которую я видел, она вызывает яркие эмоции, графика, музыка, геймплей, сюжет все на высоте, мне нравится, и вам советую купить

So for my background before I explain the score. The Last of Us 1 has been an amazing game. Not my top games of all time, since I was not a fan of the game play but the story itself carries the game as a whole easily 9/10 just for that. Now back to part 2. This game is complicated, if you ignore the story..... the game can easily hit 8/10 for me with how amazing the game looks. The story.....I dunno, I feel like this game is too deep into telling the players how **** life is in this game that they forgot how their original actors should act or behave....or anyone for that matter should act or behave in certain situations. Gameplay: I'll start by saying the gameplay is an improvement from the last game. Upgrades, new weapons and some new actions. I wasn't a fan of the original and this one actually didn't change my opinion. They added prone which is nice but the AI is kinda laughable and the jump button is used in minor cases that they might as well not have implemented it. The dodge button is nice, but at the same time very over powered, where majority of the game you can just dodge out of the way and melee back to win, making using your cool new weapons pointless. Also quick time events...theres a lot that doesn't feel like its needed (RE7 syndrome). They added in like a few new things to kill, some bosses that overall has the same strategy for everyone of them. The gameplay is better than the original, by a good margin but overall mechanics still is not my cup of tea, and I understand how other players would love this type of gameplay. Graphics: The graphics, by all means, is amazing. I love the atmosphere and how the world looks. This is where I personally think this game shines. Very little to say about this category, it is exceptional. Sound: So sound is overall pretty good, The sound the npc's make when they die, the gunfire, atmosphere and some voice actors are great. Some negatives I have is some voice actors seem to have very little emotion when certain scenes happen. I'm unsure if it was the dialogue or it was the performance but most of the time I was not convince. Like the times they should be straight up shouting or frustrated just seems off....like they are midly annoyed if anything. Story: Okay, this is a biggie. The story for the majority of the game....is basically misery simulator. You There is like.... at most 2 scenes in the game where I really like and the rest of it is just pain. The writing is at best only centers at telling you how horrible killing is and revenge is. Forget realistic character development or for that matter, realistic characters. For a game that tells you how horrible it is to kill others, they sure try to make it very fun for you to....basically kill others, with all these quick time events and awesome guns and stuff. Time skips that disrupt the story rather than enhance it, forcing an unlikable character down your throat, showing how likable she is....just makes me hate her more. Also the fact you have to play a very unlikable character for half the game....half of it. Now for my final thoughts, I think this game is going to sell a lot. It is the predecessor of one of the most important game of last gen, of course it is. But it is not the same game by story standards. This is a Star Wars the Last Jedi feel. It will do amazing but it would divide the fandom. Some would love it, others won't. just like with Final Fantasy I am bias and I would grade with bias...because I am human and I like what I like. For Final Fantasy I graded that game a 10/10 because they made me feel like a kid again and they honored their characters and give a strong story telling that makes you feel invested and alive. The Last of Us Part 2 does little to honor their characters, and worse honor their previous game story telling. At best it is a 3/10 for me.

Good graphics✔️ Good soundtrack ✔️ Good acting✔️ Beautiful design for the world✔️ The characters are boring and annoying, especially Abby ❌ Some moments between the characters are stupid and do not support the story For example: Abby sex scene was strange, nothing more After the empty endding the game is meaningless
Твёрдая четверка. На прохождение ушло 22 часа. Годный графон, анимации на высоте. Игра слишком затянута, начал скучать после пяти часов. Сюжет в целом годный, если ты толераст.
O jogo é simplesmente uma obra prima todos deveriam jogar esse jogo e entender ou pelo menos ver a ideia que ele passa, diferente do que muitos pensam o jogo não é sobre herói e vilão nem sobre final feliz ,o jogo é sobre sentimentos, consequências e o mais importante ele é sobre HUMANOS.
The story is absolutely garbage demonizes Joel makes him look bad also adding new unlovable characters and no one gives a **** about and the ending is Truly underwhelming and not worth paying full price. Neil **** this one up
Horrible sequel to a masterpiece. Graphics are great. Gameplay Is the same as the first game with some added tweaks. Good but nothing 2020 amazing. And then we come to the story. Disgusting treatment to the original characters that millions of people loved. Everything is done for shock value. Characters are bland and forced. Horrible and pointless ending. Just a horrible sequel to a great game. Shame.
Finished it and there is great, good, bad and absolutely terrible aspects. It's cobbled together like it was done by three different people and they never got to meet each other until the printing of the disc. It subverts expectation for the sake of it and the new main characters are weak as a B teir sci fi films background characters and while their at it have some of the worst and out of place dialouge in gaming as if written by an angsty teen girl for a school essay. It doesn't stop there, the pacing is destroyed by the games otherwise amazing design (in levels and comat areas) and to offset this they add character switching yet this makes it worse because when your switching from character to character to flash back to "main" game and that main game switches from open areas to long linear areas to a mix of both and back and forth you loose all investment and your time spent feels like it's getting the middle finger. Horrible choices in the way it's all constructed, just horrid. I could go on with how bad the this story is and how badly it foes a diservice to the girst game and the fans but it's been said about twenty five thousand times in these reviews in twenty five thousand different ways all with a red number but I'll say one morr thing, this game has thee worst pacing in both story and progreasion I think I've ever experienced in a game, that mid game progression break is just bonkers. It's not all bad though, this game is near second to none in graphics on console or PC (barring RTX mods), a few stand up to it like RDR2 but that had a budget and dev team larger than God could provide. Ps4 Pro resolution is good only marred by a film grain effect that can be a bit jarring and HDR is well implemented. The Pro doesn't get too loud either, albiet a few moments in intense action does so. Animations are by far unmatched even compared to RDR2 and it keeps it's game speed here without being sluggish or actions taking a day and on that note the actions are amazing, the fluid combat and human enemy encounters are some of the best in gaming, I can't get over how good they and how boring old third person stealth games have actually become fun games comat wise and not only that but brilliant. There is some frame pacing issues and the FPS is pretty weak even for 30, Ai on my TV settings smoothed it out but the frame pacing continued. Gameplay moment to moment is pretty good (bar that awful pacing) but when you are looting and shooting and climbing and jumping it's a fun loop but again... pacing...horrid. Weapons and tools are fun and exploration is highly rewarding leading back into this which in turn makes the combat more fun, a masterwork in this regard but... pacing. The combat does vary from encounter to encounter and some are very bad while the human Ai does start to show it'a not all that great after a few encounters in. Sound is incredible and it's got that amazing 3D audio design that needs to be in more games, a headset is highly recommended. Voice acting ranges from oscar worthy to B film to phoned in depending on the character or if it's a cutscene or character banter. 7/10 over all. 5 for the story. 8 for the game if you ignore the story. I really wanna give it a 6 or 3 out of 5 stars but there is something about the quality here that helps it edge to a 7 yet I gave up caring about the story and tried my best to not question it after the half way point.
Quem realmente deveria estar na frente desse game é a Amy Hennig,uma mulher que deu a vida para esse game.O que mais decepciona é a empresa que eu mesmo elogio seja a mesma que fez essa merda com o game deixando esse desmiolado do NeiL tocar em uma historia e praticamente querer lacrar e esfarelar migalhas para os cegos gostarem do game so por ser um exclusivo,se você reclama é taxado como caixista.Estamos criando uma geração nojenta como um câncer maligno.

Misleading marketing, lots of plot holes and "convinient" situations which follows along 2013 gameplay that accompany good graphics and animations. Pretty mediocre and bad marketing practices overall.

Druckman really is nothing more than a person without any self. He's only thinking about politics and being in that twitter bubble... tlou1 was a masterpiece.... this is has nothing to do with the any of that So so sad
With a lot of cut scenes, dialogs, unexpected story events, undesired story events or foreign to gaming agendas. This is still a master piece, a next leap in gaming that will change all other world wide studios’ prospective on how games are made.
Graphics - 10/10 OST -10/10 Story - 0/10 Joel Death is very bad, development is patetic.

Wow, you guys are awesome!! What tf is this story dude? Like what were you thinking while making the scenario huh? What was that ending? Holly s.... dude. Okay, dude graphics and mechanics are good no doubt, but the story no dude. You screwed up Neil.
An amazing game, with emotions punching me left and right. Surprises I never expected. God-tier animations, arguably next-gen. Much improved gameplay over the first one. Did not expect Naughty Dog to have a game on par and exceeded the first Last of Us.
Too much ideology included, dull characters, dull story. The way they try to imply drama and guilt by killing pregnant women is just stupid. Ellie is basically a serial killer, but cant kill Abbie (another psycho). So why Abby didn't kill her either? This game is just messed up...
Um jogo extremamente poderoso... Onde te deixa sem "rumo" depois das 25 Horas do mesmo. Digo isto de forma positiva. Pois faz questionar os ideais de cada um tal como poucas obras ainda o fazem ou já fizeram.
Игра разочеровала,разработчики совсем умом тронулись слили Джоила в начале игры да не просто слили а убили как собаку из девченок сделали лизбиянок вы че там курите концовка вообще непонятная диологи вообще говно кто их писал из этого можно сделать вывод что игра не стоит и одного бала


Excellent game with impeccable narrative and graphics, combat mechanics are effective and intelligent
Com certeza esse é um dos melhores jogos que já joguei na vida, uma história que te prende do começo ao fim, causando uma variedades de sentimentos de revolta, dor, ódio, satisfação, medo, aflição de uma forma como se estivesse dentro da pele de um personagem e depois disso ele te coloca para ver o outro lado da história e ver que as coisas não são preto no branco te fazendo se sentir com raiva no início mas depois te fazendo se sentir em conflito de sentimentos, é bizarro oque a ND fez nesse game, certamente é uma das melhores obras das quais eu tive o prazer esperimentar

Это очень тяжелый опыт. Если в случае с первой частью, это было интересно, очень душевно а концовка трогала за живое, то здесь это просто тяжелый опыт. Раз за разом, герои поднимаются, чтобы вновь разрушить свои жизни а также жизни чужие и в этом нет ничего интересного, душевного и более того к концу тебе становится абсолютно все равно, лишь бы поскорее это все закончилось. Что поскорее это все закончилось, можно было стереть игру и больше никогда про нее не вспоминать, потому что какого бы рода высказывание не планировали авторы в игру вложить, у них это к огромному сожалению, не получилось. Потому что игры, как и книги это не картины на стене, в них можно многое вложить, но это никогда не должно быть самоцелью, за которой абсолютная пустота....
I goddamn loved the first game, it was amazing and that is why it saddens me that this game is such a mess. The Graphics are amazing, everything from the level of detail to animations are stunning however gameplay and especially story in comparison brings this game down to such a level that i cannot recommend it to anyone. Gameplay portion is literally the same as last game and i already though that the first game's mechanics were mediocre at best but the story and the characters made up for it, on the other hand we have an opposite situation here. The story is god awful, pacing is terrible (especially in places where there are flashbacks, like those could have been switched around to ease up the dramatic twists happening super early in the game), and the characters' actions make no sense. You know some of these characters from the first game, you know how they act and carry themselves around but here IT MAKES NO SENSE WHAT THEY DO. The theme is the most generic thing ever compared to the unique theme of the first game. Overall dont even bother, I'm only giving a 4 because of how good the graphics are and the writing in the flashbacks were pretty decent, otherwise it would be a complete 0.

For me personally the story is good, it could’ve been better but it’s still quite good. I think a lot of people started the game with a bad mindset which led to disappointment. 9/10 Graphics, animations 7/10 gameplay, (it got repetitive after a while) 8/10 Story
Masterpiece, too much art in a video game. I loved it!!! Graphics, gameplay, characters, the outcome of the story, of course there had to be consequences after what Joel did in the first part, I love the difference between the love and protection story of the first part and the hate and revenge story of this.second part.
Gameplay is still the same boring thing uncharted did much better. Took months to finish then delayed it to try and make more money. Hope it fails. Druckman fired Amy Hennig for this s*i* What a waste
The *** are they did with The Last Of Us Part 2? The narrative is poor, conversations between characters are really boring, and the plot / idea looks like was taken from Metal Gear Solid 2... But worst. Graphics are strange, in some areas of the game are good, in other areas looks creepy, is a disaster. The videogames press are STRONGLY bribed putting incredibles scores to this mediocre game.

Great game, a lot of people say that Joel death is stupid but without that the game would've made no sense, also Ellie not killing Abby was great, you can see that Ellie still has some humanity in that monstrous world
I've play the game for 12 hours so far and it is fantastic, game play is much the same from the first game and story so far is gripping! I love the last of us games!
Jogabilidade e história maravilhosos. Certamente o jogo mais caprichado da geração. Nenhuma preguiça ou ganância na hora de produzir uma obra prima que instiga o jogador a avançar e descobrir o destino dos personagens, como também faz refletir sobre como algumas escolhas e o ódio podem acabar com a vida de alguém.
people did not rate TLOU1 for its gameplay, but for the story and bonding. the 2nd iteration did not really enhance combat that much and the story is boring/stupid. CONTROLS compared to many action games, the controls and gameplay is the definition of average. nothing interesting, you do not really look forward for fighting anyone or to just enjoy contorls. there is nothing challenging about it. STORY: it had potential to be something, but the writers seem to believe "graphic violence = deep and real" which is simply not true with TLOU2. Also changing the previous protagonist's personality and how he behaves just to be able to kill him off for political agenda, then giving us a girl with mental issues and 0 personality development made me happy to have played it at a friend's instead of paying

I waited years for this game to come out, and I was hoping for a better story. Something more than shock value. *Love the game play +1 *Love the graphics +1 *Love the voice act +1 *I couldn't connect to the characters -1 *I didn't fall in love with the story like the first one -1 *Was hard for me to get the game, since it was blocked in my region-1 *Game felt long and repetitive at some point -1 *I enjoyed the collectable in first game more -1 *I didn't appreciate the false marketing and fake trailers they provided -1 *I think they should have given Joel more game play -1
Игра не шедевр, но очень хорошая Очень жалко, что они закончили игру вот так даже помечтать нельзя о будущем игры Со слезами на глазах смотрел последние кадры
The Last of Us Part II is a cinematic Masterpiece. In classic Naughty Dog fashion the story is unpredictable and takes you on a 30 hour thrill ride as you learn Abbys motivation for killing Joel. I thought this twist was smartly written in a sense that it made me empathize with Abby. Naughty Dog has also out done themselves in terms of Gameplay as the dedicated dodge button and a much more nimble Ellie makes for a far more engaging experience. The Enemy encounters are also much more intense because of this. The level designs are also the best out of any Naughty Dog game. Overall, The Last of Us Part II goes in an unpredictable direction, as its characters, story and gameplay make this another Naughty Dog Masterpiece that never drags or loses focus despite its lengthy run.
Revenge story where you don't get to revenge. You kill everybody, except for people who actually wronged you. They get free pass in the name of breaking the violence circle. It's like poetry written by 'roid junkie. Waste of time.
Tecnicamente um jogo que beira a perfeição,jogabilidade aprimorada,gráficos e expressões excelentes não posso dizer quanto a história pq só joguei umas 5 horas dela mas está legal tbm
Amazing gameplay let down by a poorly written storyline with plot holes. Since this is a single player game, story is quite important so without it, it's a mess
This game is a masterpiece, It's so rare to talk about the human being in a video game, however, the perfect narrative gets supported with perfect graphic, perfect body gesture, and perfect voice actors.
Emotional continuation of one of my favourite games of all time. This game has taken that medal. The gameplay, graphics, story and world are absolutely incredible. Naughty dog aren’t getting the credit they deserve for this masterpiece
El videojuego como tal es muy bueno, graficos excelentes, animaciones de 10, detalles soberbios y por estar pulido sin bugs todo bien hasta ahi pero no llega al 10 por los malos momentos de la historia por el relleno innecesario de gameplay con Abby y por tocar temas como la homosexualidad de Ellie y escenas de sexo que no eran necesarias, por matar a Joel de una manera ridícula, tonta y cruel, por mostrar a Joel como personaje jugable cuando en realidad no se se juega con El, por querer que empatize con Abby durante 10 horas a mas y no lograrlo y por el final que es un despropósito a las 30 horas de juego. Si no te intereza la historia seguramente tendrás un juego de 10 pero como estos juegos la historia pesa y mucho se a ganado el odio de la comunidad.
It’s a shame the game went that direction.Joel and tommy are survivers for 24 years and said their names to completely strangers like unexperienced naive kids.After that joel gets killed in the most disgusting and dishonest way i have ever seen in a video game.You hunt down the killer of joel but the best part is you play as her too.You finally come to the end to get your revenge only to let the killer live and she bites your fingers off too and now you can’t even play with the guitar anymore what joel gifted you.The whole story is a joke and i hope neil drugmann gets kicked out of the studio he is definetly in the wrong position. Pros:Gameplay is better than the first one Open worldish feeling with a lot more exploration Cons:Story and direction is a mess This game doesn’t honor your beloved characters like joel which players are most related too.
The Last of Us Part 2 is such a disappointment to me. It can be a new game with new character, but cannot be part 2. It humiliates the fans in the previous one. First of all, put LGBTR character is not a big deal for me, but Ellie's love story is not attractive and cannot help with the storyline. Whether she is straight or gay, her love story is not attractive, can not shape her image, meaningless. LGBTR has their own feelings, not just simply put into the story waiting for SJW praising you, Neil. Just like someone said, 'I just wanna kill the zombies'. Secondly, this story wants to express humanity against Joel's behavior in part 1, but cannot really see any humanity at all. Most importantly, there's no logic for main characters to choose who to kill, who to mercy. I'm not being emotional, but at least, give me a clue. It surprises me like Game of Throne last season last episode.

It’s awesome game it’s masterpiece I played this game it has a fantastic story fantastic gameplay fantastic graphics

Just finished it. Loved it. Beautiful graphics and animation, fun gameplay, Ellie is a badass and I love playing as her. There is a point about 13 hours ish in that something happens and it last to long in my opinion. The whole game could have been cut down by about 6 hours probably and been a little more focused m. Overall I love it and I hope they do some DLC or a 3ed game
Disappointing, disgusting, horrible. Keep your expectations low please. This game never existed for me.

This game has incredible graphics, new gameplay mechanics and beautiful world design but aside from that, I did not enjoy this game For all the things it had, the core of the game; the story, was terrible and character progression wasn’t good either as you would not feel any connection with other characters. The game tries switching things up a bit but also fails at that, characters don’t have a good backstory nor something relatable to make you feel for them. Gameplay although changed slightly has an awful AI system (even when set to hard) and sometimes too long segments that make you actually feel that you want to finish it as soon as possible, it also doesn’t help that it is intertwined with the badly written story. This game had so much anticipation from me since I loved the original The Last Of Us, but it was the biggest disappointment I ever had.
Oh boy... Where to begin... If you are like me, you played The Last of Us Part 1 way back during it's release on the PS3. The game had stunning graphics, great sound, good gameplay, but the things that made it one of the best games on the platform was the beauty of the level designs and above that the magnificent storyline involving two of main characters with their struggle to survive and make sense of the world. That recipe landed it the game of the year back then on the PS3 and then again on the PS4 when it was released as a remastered version which I also bought. I had two TLOU1 copies total spanning two systems. That was just how good it was. Fast forward to today and to Part 2 of this iconic game. Let's start with what it got right from the recipe of the old game. GRAPHICS and Level Design: Like the first, Part 2 continues on stunning displays of the environment. No complaints there. SOUND: Again, it is on par with the first. GAMEPLAY: This is for the most part on par again with the first with a few additions to make exploring more realistic thus giving it a slight edge. Sadly, from here on out it is downhill. Way downhill... STORYLINE: I enjoyed the game for about 2 hours into it. Then IT happens. Death is understandable in a game with an apocalyptic setting. It can be sad but still illicit a positive experience to the player. Flashback to FF7 when Aerith meets the grim reaper with an 8 ft blade. It was traumatic yet it didn't leave a horribly bad aftertaste by the end of the game. In TLOU2 though, it felt unnecessarily rushed. Like someone couldn't wait to get rid of one of the characters. Then to make matters worse, you have to play as the character who ended such a beloved one from the 1st game. The theme of revenge is done relatively like any other game or movie before, and it doesn't really make the player feel much excitement to see what happens next. It starts becoming boring and predictable. At least until the end where they throw you another curve ball to ruin yet another character from the 1st game. You're left with a sense of what was the point of all of this? In the 1st game, you had a clear goal. The twists and turns to reach it all fit together nicely, until the end where they also throw you a curve ball to the story. But unlike the 1st where there was a purpose to the actions that led to the end, in Part 2 the player is left with a strong feeling to scream "WTF was the point of all this!?". The story is severely flawed. The ending leaves you with nothing, and worse it tarnishes the legacy and choices made by the end of the 1st game. All in all, The Last of Us 2 is only worth playing if you're into good graphics and gameplay mechanics. Those who want a kickass story with memorable characters will be better served not playing story mode at all. Hopefully they will release a Multiplayer for the game, because that will be the only thing worth playing in this sorry excuse for a sequel to such an iconic game of years ago. Since this game relies heavily on the storyline aspect due to the lack of a multiplayer option, I cannot give it a good score. The story isn't any good. That alone is more than enough to overshadow any of the positives the game has.

Boring, uninspired, unlikable characters and WAY too long thanks to an endless amount of unnecessary filler... I found myself constantly skipping cutscenes... Something I NEVER thought I'd be doing with a 3 day old, AAA title... It also doesn't feel like much of an upgrade from the original... A 7 YEAR OLD GAME... Definitely NOT worth $65...
This game was incredibly disappointing. The first game was a masterful story of finding redemption in a brutal world while this sequel is nothing more than a dark revenge tale. They turned Ellie into a miserable, cynical character whose depressed adult personality resembles nothing of the girl from the original game. The gameplay feels repetitive and dated as well. Sure the graphics are great, but that's about the only positive on this terrible sequel. Buyer's remorse big time.
The beautiful spirit of the last part has disappeared, so that a part without an identity and a bad story has come, the game has been destroyed in order to please certain parties, this is very odious to sacrifice a beautiful game for things that do not benefit the game
What Niel Druckman did with this game is unfair for those people that played the first game with their heart. Having created a relationship with Joel and Ellie on their peak of the firs adventure is something very difficult to overtake in a second take like this. If they wanted to make a new character for this, they must consider then build that character into the players.
This game is not like what everyone excepted In the end at least let us kill abby **** neil druckman **** the last of us part 2
The story beats of this game versus the original all tie in really well for me. The pacing and sheer brutal realism is both impacting & shocking. But also truthful to the subject matter. I absolutely loved it. One of my experiences of this generation.
First time here reviewing a game as I feel the gaming community has be let down by brought reviews and just terrible writing and pandering to certain groups .. 10/10 not likely !!! I brought the last of us off a angry joe review done and simply fell in love with the game ( that I otherwise would have not bothered with ) story graphics an absolute gem... i have patiently waited for a sequel for quite a few years and was pleasantly surprised when it was announced and have been reading and waiting for the release date …. Only to be disappointed after spending the 25 hours to complete the game i feel let down and very very disappointed .. graphically its amazing and game play is entertaining but the story is a disaster for naughty dog to spew out this crap something is wrong with in there company .. firstly you kill Joel with in the first few hours okay i guess the story has a goal kill the person who did it and all the people involved revenge story i like it …. so playing as ellie for the first 10 hours or so was great she had a purpose so i had a purpose .. BUT This is where it went to sh.t WTF naught dog you then make me play as this weird woman with arms and a body like a man is she trans does she like the gym to much i have no idea what she is except for the fact i want to kill this thing ( there is also no real explanation to what she is ) so i carried on with the game all the time thinking WHY am i playing this character... Then to add insult to injury you try make her out to be a good person WTF so stupid!! Okay so i get to what i think is the end the farm not at all satisfied with the outcome but ohh well then the biggest owen on abby…Ellie goes after her one last time to do nothing but let her go why why why!!!! This game has no clue on what it was trying to achieve story wise and was left confused and disappointed … Here ill write the story for naught dog abby kills joel , ellie goes bat **** crazy and takes out each of the people that had something to do with it each giving up through torcher or other means to the location of the next member ellie gets a new side kick like the little scar kid abby got ( so you now got a joel and ellie story ellie being the wiser protector ) in the end you can kill abby or not but sets up another game last of us 3 ellie vs abby game or sets up the story with ellie as a mentor for the next game simple!!! conclusion this game has ruined my love of naughty dog and there games now that i will be hard pressed to invest in there bullsh.t again GOOD WORK!! 10/10 LMFAO 3/10 AT BEST AND ONLY FOR GRAPHICS AND GAMPLAY
One of the best game i've ever played. Top emotional story, 0 score posted dummys who didnt play the game. Niel Drakmann is genius, like Kodjima. One thing i didnt like is killing the dogs. Definitely could be the game of year.

Gameplay is fine, it's a mix between tlou and uncharted 4. The combat is nothing innovative but it gets the job done. Voice acting is really good and so is the music. The problem of the game is the story. With such an average gameplay, a story that is so dislikeable just makes you want to turn off the console or switch games. ND pride themselves on the game being "mature" and how they dont use the word "fun" but that's precisely the issue. A video game SHOULD be fun, making it depressive isnt mature its just pretentious. The game is a chore to go through and if you manage to torture yourself to finish it, you're rewarded with the most edgy, bland and mediocre ending of this generation of gaming. It is just a middle finger to the fanbase and honestly if I could I'd get a refund. Disappointed and angry about this game, don't buy it.
I'm not adding my review to add to any kind of agenda to misinterpret it as "most reviewed" game of 2020 blah blah blah. I'm doing this because I would like to show Sony my dislike of how the story caters to a certain crowd. The story seems to of been compromised while in development and after playing it I stopped early to not even finish the game. It feels forced plot wise while disregarding what we have learned from the first game. It makes absolutely no sense what happen and it's unfortunate that some think they have something to prove while making this game. I wont support this franchise going forward as a trilogy when that happens. Thanks but no thanks. If you loved the first game you will probably hate this one. Good luck if you choose to get it. Terrible.
gameplay: 8/10 story: 12/20 Graphics: 10 Sound: 10 Overall, still worth the price, but it's a one and done game that is memorable for more bad reasons than good.
The game is brilliant, I don't understand the hate. I was also upset to see joel died, but the whole story in my opinion just make sense and create more character development for ellie.
Just a terrible story the best parts was the scenes of joel and ellie, the sex scene was very disgusting, in addition you travel all the contrie to kill the responsable and finally you don't because of joel's image what?(but you can kill a pregnant woman ) And you lose 2 fingers so you can't play the guitar that joel gave it to her and by this she breaks the final wit joel
Okay first off - I decided to give the game a go even when I read the leaks. The game is stunning on the graphics side but gameplay-wise, it feels the same as the first one and I kept having the feeling that you were always pushed to the next cutscene as this game is really linear. It is really hard to finish as the story gets really depressing and I never felt attached to the new characters. I platinumed the first one and never found the same enjoyment or thrill that I had while playing this one (except for a 10 minute part that took place in a museum - if you played it you know) I don't care for any of the LGBT complaints that you see on the web - the story would still be bad if you took all of this out of there. I was looking for the continuation of one of the best game and story I experienced and this just wasn't it... They even changed characters in some scenes from the trailers and this just made me mad... They really played with my love for this series.
Я прошел «The Last of Us Part II» и мне очень грустно и горько от той жалости, которую я испытываю ко всем действующим лицам этого непревзойденного произведения. Мне жалко Джоэла, ведь еще в первой «The Last of Us» он теряет самое бесценное что у него есть - дочь Сару, но на протяжении игры он находит и видит в Элли свою вторую дочь и понимает, что это может быть его последней потерей. И не взирая на то, что Элли возможно это ключ к спасению миллионов жизней, происходит то роковое событие в больнице Святой Марии, которое запустит цикл мести, которая всех погубит. К большому сожалению, правда, которая выходит наружу, оставляет Джоэла непрощённым и убитым. Элли, и ее посттравматический синдром, опускает ее на дно морали, жажда отмщения вызывает помутнение рассудка, и она превращается в убийцу, которая в итоге все теряет - друзей, любовь и вероятно смысл, так как месть по итогу не состоялась, а Джоэла, вероятно, она не успела простить. Ближе к концу хотелось сказать, а не пора ли тебе уже остановиться? Я считаю, что в финальной драке она не стала убивать Эбби, так как увидела в ней и Льве себя и Джоэла. Эбби потеряла отца, а далее и друзей, ее мотив прост и понятен, а то, что она и ее группа оставили Томми и Элли в живых, говорит о ее моральных принципах, которые демонстрируются на протяжении игры. Прошу заметить, что в театре Эбби также оставляет в живых Элли и Дину. Лев играет очень важную роль в будущей жизни Эбби, так как забота о нем - это теперь ее смысл. Эбби, как человек, вызывает симпатию и после всего случившегося за нее переживаешь больше, чем за остальных. Мне нравится Эбби так же, как и Элли. Я прошел путь от абсолютной ненависти к ней до истинного понимания и отношения к ней, и все это заслуга искусного рассказывания историй. Полностью блестящий и непохожий на все, что я когда-либо испытывал, за исключением Death Stranding.
Returned the game after the first couple of hours! Waste of time and money! Give your money to developers that actually care about what the consumer wants and not their little agendas.

I feel like naughty dog is mad at us for liking the first game. The franchise was what it was (before this game) because of the narrative of the first game. Doesn't matter how much you dress up the package with nice graphics and decent gameplay, the core of the experience is the story in the Last Of Us franchise. Naughty dog fails to deliver a story halfway decent compared to the first game. Even if for some reason naughty dog just had to kill Joel off, this has to be worst possible way to do so. What makes this game utterly garbage for me is the fact that you are forced to play as this new character at times which you despise because you liked the first game. The game could have been a lot better (still not the perfect) if you were allowed to play as Ellie alone to hunt down Abby and not have her run over all the characters like a jacked up deranged maniac. I would be happy if this game was erased from the canon and chalked up as a mistake. Naughty Dog forgot the fact that at the end of day, people play games for fun. There are plenty of ways to tell a dark story while ensuring the experience is fun to engage with. This game is not fun, you were correct in saying so Niel druckman. It has no business being an entertainment project.

30 hours of story that goes nowhere, and the destruction of the narrative in the first game makes this game completely pointless. It's a character they added were terrible while they destroyed the old characters entire basis for the plot to happen.

I did not enjoy this game at all. The graphics are great. The gameplay is fine. And the story is a disgrace. Neil forgot what made the last of us so special. The characters.
If i wasn't called the Last of Us Part 2 I would have gave it a 9 The graphics and audio are amazing! The game has some great action setpieces and some of the best level design I've seen in a video game. The story is my biggest issue with the game along with the worst ending of all time! I just want more of a joel and ellie adventure instead I got a game more concerned with delivering a message over telling an amazing story! Still a great game but was a major letdown for last of us fans who waited 7 years for a sequel Some

The gameplay and character are amazing, graphics are stunning, in here gameplay also improved, most of the people hate this game because of joel death, anyone don't judge the game because of one character
The Game is a masterpiece deserves 10/10. amazing story with great direction even if i still prefer the story of the first one but this game is an awesome experience.
It’s a great game, I haven’t seen a game with visuals like this, it’s pretty impressive the level of realism and details this game has. Set high the bar. the gestures and conversations in each dialogue are enjoyable, maintains a high level of interest in the player, goes from more to more, the story cannot be liked by many but the message came perfectly to me, we always tend to demonize those who believe the enemy without knowing what drives the character, we never thought in theirs interests, they are just people trying to revenge as Ellie wants to. I played this game and felt short for me but it wasn’t, it’s the story, mechanics, the gameplay, the tension, all in one make a great cocktail in this game. Personally I prefer this game over first one, I understand the rage of the people and fans but we have to remember there are no heroes here, just persons with the bad and good what represents being humans, I love Joel but I know he did bad things for his convenience. The inclusion it’s not forced, it’s very organic and represents the reality of some people, Abby is a great character but at the first I hated her because the game wants you to hate her, when I started playing with her I wanted to turn off the game, but advancing you understand why, I don’t love Abby but I understand, and I sympathize with her, I’d do the same, but we already know the cost of that. This game once you finish it, let you thinking and thinking, reflecting and you love it more, I felt is a path of hard emotions won’t let you with a good feelings, it’s bitter, in fact I didn’t want to play again the game just remembering what that entailed, but I did and saw other thing I didn’t when I played it for the first time, places, dialogues, collectibles etc. This deserves the must play stamp, give it a opportunity it’sa very personal game.

I don't even know where to start with this review. It's disaapointing on so many levels. I've put about 27 hours into it and feel like I played 50. The writing and these new characters are terrible. Is this the same writer from last of us1? I don't know what happened and I can recommend.
Absolute disrespect to the first game and its characters. Blatant agenda pushing as far as the eye can see. This game wasn't made for fans of the original, it was a politically charged cringe fest to shove certain ideals down peoples throats, and then berate them if they don't like it. Pass on this and get yourself a few beers or another game. You'll be damn glad you did.

This is the first time that I'm in trouble reviewing a videogame. Because tlou 2 grafically is gorgeous and gameplay and level design are good, though is simply a more of the same. But the plot and the characters in the game are the most disappointing developer's choiches ever seen in a videogame. Naughty dog wasted everything with a poor writing. The writer of tlou2 plot is the worst in the gaming industry.
What naughty dog has done to our characters is disgraceful. Treating joel like that, completely forgetting everything the first game was about. This game isnt even about the virus anymore. Its a joke of a revenge game. The story completely ruins this game.

Uma experiência de como realmente é o mundo pós apocalíptico, embora tenha assuntos polêmicos de longe não ofusca o potencial desse jogo, ainda mais quando se trata de uma continuação. A realidade e imersão aderidas nesse game , são absurdas. Te colocando em um conflito de emoções contra você mesmo.

This game amazing graphics and action. But the story was a theme of revenge that was sudden and commonplace in a bad way. (Including the underlying redemption theme.) It seems to me that if you're going to develop a commonplace story anyway, it should have been more royal.
Incredible game, graphics are insane, mocap and voice acting is top tier the gameplay is as smooth as butter, and the story is incredibly written and is an emotional roller coaster.
Sure the graphics and audio are great, but the story is a stale revenge plot that doesn't even have a good payout towards the end, I mean Red Dead Redemption 2's epilogue does the revenge story better. Gameplay is the same as the first game, except now you can go prone and you can now jump. Don't get me wrong I respect all the devs and actor's/actress's who put in work into the game, but in my opinion the game's story could've been much better.
it's actually not that bad let alone a 0 these gamer are u know,being a gamer the graphic is gorgeous the gampeplay is good the story is actaully never that bad gamer being so dramatic about it lol i'll give it 80
Crappy game, horrible story, mediocre characters, nothing good about this. Gameplay is okay, terrible creative decisions... I gave a 0 but metacritic is giving my review a 1... it was corrected after I uploaded it a second time... so sad...
Haber pedazos de ignorantes primero las malas notas uno está por parte de hater a Sony y lo mismo ocurrirá con ghots of tshusima segundo ponen que por la historia ya de una merece un 0 cuando no es así un juego se lo critica tanto narrativa mente y jugabilidad tercero comentan personas que ni siquiera tienen el juego por dios gente estúpida ponen nota baja porque les tocó la moral se merece mínimo un 7 pero le pongo 10 para intentar pelear con los arenosos paz
The game had 10/10 solid start but it declined with time and the forced Abby part made the game unbearable and boring! And the ending was a master level trash!
i waited for long of time to play this game... look what i got, bad story game with paid fake reviews and dishonest trailer, the developer should be know basic human psychology, they should make positive game... negative game only get people angry and get negative reviews
I Just completed the game..and wow... just wow... inspite of so many deaths, the ending blew away my mind... thank you Neil Druckmann for creating this masterpiece. All those fake reviews on Metacritic is purely a joke. This game is beyond immensity to even rate it. Following are the points what I really loved about the game. 1) Direction 2) Gameplay 3) Environment/atmosphere , visuals, GFX 4) Sound effects/BGM 5) The ending. What I hated? 1) Too many deaths 2) story was slow pacing. In the end all I would say is, grab your copy blindly if you are yet to play this game...play it, and then rate it. The last of us 2 has set a new benchmark in gaming industry. It will be remembered forever and ever for producing suchh a masterpiece.
This game is an absolute garbage in all aspects and definitely it is Failure of The Year This game is an absolute garbage in all aspects and definitely it is Failure of The Year
Love the graphics, the view and everything, well for the story? Nah its just mess i respect what Neil trying to do but he just wasted Joel die just for "revenge is bad" like wtf he fan use Dina for that right? Why wasted the character that people care about that people love the one that make the first game good water just like that what a Shame i hope this year not gona become more worst Shame on you how buy this game
Great graphics but the game is neither fun or entertaining. The story is violent for the sake of violence and lacks heart. A pale shadow of the first game.
É decepcionante ver o que fizeram com Joel !!! Assassinaram a historia mataram o the last of us...... vou jogar e quardar no fundo da gaveta !!!!
The Last of Us 2 its amazing game than a have to playing in this year, the history in the first game its about love, in this sequel its about revenge, brutal violence.... and the central two characters was connected for some reason to reflect in your lives in the end. This game its awesome!
Honestly didn't play this game myself. I Watched the spoilers before the game released, canceled my preorder, and decided to wait until Skillup and Angry Joe played it first. Man am I happy I saved my $60 because they both have nothing good to say about the story. Even Pewdiepie was hating playing it, and that's saying something. To clarify, I have watched the full gameplay, I just never purchased it myself.
Cambiaron el mensaje del antihéroe en el 1, el 1 trataba de elegir la felicidad propia vs el bien de todos. En el 2 lo cambiaron por el lema "La venganza mata el alma y envenena". No importaba que Joel muriera, sino que tuviera un mensaje transcedental su muerte. Hasta podría esperar un final inesperado y que Joel se levantaba de la tumba como el 1 él ha recibido palizas fuertes y demoro meses en recuperarse. Los gráficos son identicos al remastered del 1 hasta parece que se reciclo el motor gráfico, pero siguen siendo aceptables. Los enemigos con armadura, debieron aparecer desde antes, para agregar dificultad y ya para que el final aparezcan algunos con armadura completa. A medida que se juega es repetitivo y no hay mucha rejugabilidad.
I think, according to my personal experience, that the game it is not quite shocking as the first one, but it still at a high level of narrative, graphics, playability, mechanics and other features. The plot is a perfect way to "end" the game and the fact that you can play with both, Ellie and Abby makes you wonder if you were truly being a hero or just a mercenary... That makes you question your moral, maybe?? It is a complete game and it is told as it should be told.
Don't listen to the critic reviews. This game is a POOR sequel to a beautiful story. If you're thinking about playing, reading or watching through the story, don't. For the Last of Us franchise, in this entry's case, ignorance is bliss. I avoided spoilers and played the game, the moment I finished the game, I was sad. I tried to convince myself that the game was actually good and that was why I was sad. The more I thought about it, the more I realized I was lying to myself. I was jaded because I realized we lost what could have been, the potential squandered. This game didn't need to exist, in fact it detracts from the first one because now you know what happens, every time I think of The Last of Us part 1, my nostalgia is interrupted by a wave of resentment for what happens next in the installment. This. Game. Didn't. Need. To. Be. Made. I've never regretted playing a video game, usually I become wistful and remember all the fun I had, wishing I could forget and replay it again. In this case, I regret playing it at all. Gone are the heartwarming moments from the first game, gone are the character developments made, replaced by hours of just purely exhaustive violence, I love a good blood splat but damn this game drags it out for so long without a break. Characters are built partway only to be killed and the emotional consequence of their death is explained 8-7 hours later, but by that point the player doesn't care because A. I've brutally killed hundreds of these enemies and B. it was such a long time ago, I don't even remember why they were significant. The revenge plot is handled poorly, even Destiny 2, known for it's mediocre story, the Destiny 2 Forsaken DLC had a better revenge plot and a better send off for the beloved character that was killed. Now that I think about it, the Last Of Us 2 has the almost exact same premise as Forsaken even down to the "Revenge has consequences" theme. It's sad that Neil Druckmann won't acknowledge criticism and instead is making fun of people like me. He is touting this game as "art". However, slapping an "art" label on something doesn't mean it should automatically be revered, art can be bad and in this case I truly think it is. I wish Naughty Dog released a DLC that's just a 20 second scene, with Ellie waking up from a nightmare and saying "huh thank god it was just a dream", because then ND would have a shot of remaking it into something incredible. Sadly, that won't happen. This game is video game's equivalent to Game of Thrones Season 8. I'm getting tired of my favorite mediums of entertainment being hijacked and turned into a means to push a political agenda. Yes this game does that too, I have no ill will towards women and members of the LGBTQ+ community, and the majority of players don't either. The popularity around Games such as Horizon Zero Dawn, the Resident Evil series, hell even the Uncharted series and the first Last Of Us proves that. Just because we don't like this specific medium that incorporates these elements, doesn't mean we're bigots and it's not a valid justification for why the story was poorly made. My favorite character in the game was a member of these groups and his story was compelling. Games are mediums through which the player can escape reality, if you're going to shove in your political ideology and agenda, you have to make that person's story as compelling as everyone else's and not let it be their defining trait, If anything it does a disservice to people it is meant to represent. This is show not tell 101. If you want a heartfelt story about a parental figure and the moral ambiguities about your character's actions, play God of War or the first Last of Us. If you want a story that tells an underlying story about the pitfalls of revenge and people trying to better themselves through struggle, play Red Dead Redemption 2. If you want to remember The Last of Us as a good story, don't play this one, it leaves you tired with a foul taste in your mouth. Ironic that this story is about loss and I too have felt loss, just not in the way ND intended.
Gameplay was good wich is normal in 2020 i mean it could not be a gameboy gameplay, the story was very bad I wish things where different, but they aint
Much better than people are making it out to me. Certain elements of the plot could have been executed better and I question whether or not this story would have worked better if told in chronological order, but this isn’t a slap in the face to the original like many people are saying. The biggest surprise here is the gameplay, particularly the tense, frantic combat encounters. Play on high difficulty and don’t use listen mode — that’s how the game should be experienced. The stealth is the absolute best in any Naughty Dog game and perhaps my favorite in a big budget stealth game since MGSV. The open-ended design of the levels is both dense and expansive, naturally facilitating multiple play styles and keeping all of them engaging. Outside of the main narrative, of which there has been plenty of criticism (some deserved, some not), the actual world building and environmental storytelling are both top notch here. The LGBT characters generally steer clear of pandering and don’t virtue signal like, say, Steve in Mass Effect 3; regardless of what anyone says, the fact that one of the most frequently cited problems with the game is the inclusion of LGBT characters is, frankly, ridiculous, immature, and neckbeard to the extreme. What a silly thing to dismiss a game for, honestly.
I waited 6 years for it and was absolutely blown away by the 1st game when i was 13. Now 19, my love has not changed. I never saw the leaks, i have been watching trailers,teasers since 2016. This game has very misleading trailers and the reviewers were allowed to talk only about the 1st half of the game based on the early copy agreement. ND gave fans the perspective that this is a revenge story with Joel and Ellie on the journey and the only playable character is Ellie. ND talked about how this game is about honouring Joel and Ellie which is not true at all. They completely changed the last of us for the sake of telling a dark conflicted profound story but the execution was not good. If you love the characters in the 1st game, i recommend you not to play it cuz it is so disrespectful to fans. If you want a conflicting morale story with politics included, you may enjoy it. Even then you will find the pacing of the game bad and your interest in playing it will decline and you would just want to see the ending which is unsatisfying making the whole story and new game + pointless. The game director said fun is not a word to describe the last of us 2 so if you are looking for a fun game, this is not it. You might like characters but you will find it pointless to cuz of the story. The gameplay , graphics, mechanics, voice acting are all amazing but the story fails and the last of us 1 was known for its beautiful story. If you love tlou1 characters especially, let their story in your mind end there. If you are curious ,watch on youtube Joel confession to Tommy and Joel sings to Ellie, Ellie's museum birthday, Joel and Ellie guitar strings , Joel confession to Ellie,Joel Jackson party, Ellie talks about Joel decision. Watch it in the this order. If you love and care about the Joel Ellie Tommy relationship , do not play TLOU2. May your survival be long. May your death be swift.
I don’t know what people are whining about. The gameplay is spectacular, the story is keeps you engaged, the scars are terrifying, and the cutscene to gameplay transitions are fantastic. Not to mention that it’s absolutely gorgeous! 10 out of 10 for me!
This game is absolutely terrible, do not buy it. I have been waiting 7 YEARS... 7 YEARS FOR THIS. I cant believe what you did to this game ND. I am so disappointed. I cant believe I bought it. I played it for roughly 10 hours and just watched the rest on twitch. The reason for that was because I could literally not bear playing this game alone anymore, and needed some comedy and people to laugh at this games poor writing with. I was just getting so disappointed, shoutout to XQC for streaming the whole game. His chat is hillarious. Again ND I hope you take this to heart, this is what happens when you miss with your target demographic. Not everyone lives in the USA, or California. People are very different abroad. We can't relate to the agenda you are pushing genuinely. Its not enjoyable for us. At all
Игра офигенна, проходится на одном дыхании! Я фанат произведениями Нила) как круто можно завернуть сюжет, так сможет не каждый. Графика, геймплей все на высочайшем уровне! Ждём продолжения 10 из 10 однозначно
First of all on the hardest difficulty i had no trouble finishing it in roughly 22 hours so 30 35 hours is an over estimation. Graphics are very good, sound and level design is very good, yet i found gameplay weaker than the first game, less precise melee combat and it is always the same thing, bad guys search for you, you shoot them from a safe point, or do stealth. I loved zombie parts and it is fun when they are around but they generally aren't. Story is very very bad written, so much questionable scenes that does not make any sense, if you have replayed TLOU1 just a few days ago this is even more disturbing, most actions of the characters does not make any sense and so out of their character. You will spend some hours very boringly with zero action, plot holes in the story makes you dont want to go on. The ending is sooooooo bad and bleak it literally spits on all the hours you spent in the game and as the credits roll you have a big 'F you thats why' feeling. The developers clearly aimed to make you think and say to yourself 'maybe i should not go on' and this is exaclty what you need to do. Instead of paying the game and regretting as i did and going through the end just to regret more, don't buy it. Buy Doom Eternal, buy RDR2 if you haven't, buy GoW, keep your money fpr Ghost of Tsushima, but if you decide to but this game non the less, then get ready to regret every penny you have wasted.
The best game of all time, possibly advanced to a century in our society. This game has left every level of storyline and narrative soaring. At another level. I perfectly understand that a simple mind does not understand. And only see nonsense of cospiracy and manipulation by the "pogres". But in this world there are many people with many different minds, from one who believes that the earth is flat or those who believe that the world works in one way. The rest are incorrect. A pity for those minds. THE BEST GAME OF THE WHOLE GENERATION AND MAY BE FROM THE CENTURY. IT WILL TAKE 100 YEARS OR MORE TO SEE SOMETHING AT THIS NARRATIVE LEVEL.
This game had so much potential but it all went the down drain when Neil Druckmann pushed his ideologies in a game. Story is so bad like it was from a fanfiction, Character Development doesn't improve and Character interactions are bland at best. There are also questionable scenes that should not even be allowed in a game. Gameplay isn't even revolutionary it's just your standard action game. The only redeeming quality of this game is it's graphics and that's it. This game is an insult to the first game and not a worthy sequel. Word of advice save your money for other games.
Well I don't know about the perfect scores and 10s, but the only 10 here is the graphics. The story is extremely disappointing and writing is horrible. It's like I'm watching a B-Grade teenage flick. They ruined the old characters and the new ones are not interesting. The only good moments were from the bonding between Joel and Ellie. All in all a very disappointing experience for a game from ND.
The game has a fantastic visual. This is one of the best that has been created in general: graphics, vizika, sound, atmosphere. Everything is done at the highest level, but everything else is very bad. Gameplay has not changed from 1 part and after a couple of hours is terribly annoying. The plot is just sheer **** and carries no intrigue for most of the game. The characters are absolutely not interesting, but we can see how women save the world from worthless men. It would be better if the developers paid more attention to the game, and not to the SJW agenda. I'm very disappointed
Объясняю почему The Last of Us Part 2 один из лучших экшенов от 3-его лица на сегодняшний день: качество анимаций, реакция нпс на попадание пуль, реакция гг на попадание пуль, импакт от оружия, звуки оружия и окружения, интенсивность мили-боёвки, качество расчленёнки и её наличие вообще, взаимодействие с окружением, спец эффекты, поведение нпс (если выставить уровень выше лёгкого) и тд и тп - это объективные вещи, которые оцениваются вне зависимости от чьих либо эмоций. Техническое исполнение этих аспектов в TLOU2 - великолепное, достаточно просто начать сравнивать их с другими играми из жанра. На счёт сюжета наверное я сейчас скажу то что лежит на поверхности, в TLOU2 вообще нет положительных персонажей с точки зрения морали и этики. Там все заслуживают смерти. НО у нас есть эмоциональная привязанность к персонажам и мы сами пытаемся оправдать их поступки. Вы наверное могли понять по запискам в игре что все те кто были "адекватными", умерли в первый год. Остались только моральные уроды которые готовые на все.
I thought that this game will be great, like the firs part. But story is annoying, charracter (second one) is horrible and some moments in storyline are stupid. To list all of then will take a lot of time. I do not recommend this game... it will only disappoint you. (Better have a good memories about the first part) than horrible impression's from the 2nd.

The game is not good. But the good thing about it is the way it looks and the levels that's it. The combat and looting is the exact same as the first game. The story was so **** it actually made me kinda mad to be honest. And having to play as a character that i did not care about really impacted the game for me in a big way and by half of the game i had to make myself finish the game which is honest sad. And it honestly spit in the face at the first game and its characters.
This game just spits in the face of all the loyal fans who have waited for a sequel. The fans deserved better If you want us to keep buying your games. The only thing it does right is the graphics. There is so much wrong in this game where Joel dies and Ellie doesn't kill the person that technically killed her father. And that you play the killer of Joel trying to get us to feel bad for her and see her point of view. The story writers completely shot themselves in the foot with having her kill Joel and trying to force us to like her. Nobody will like Abby after they just seen her kill Joel, it doesn't work like that. Take notes from The Walking Dead about killing a beloved character, if you want to make a likeable bad guy, look up Negan.

An impressive technical achievement that still manages to deliver effective and simple, yet arguably dated gameplay, with a story that shows moments of brilliance, yet is overall marred by poor writing that feels contrived, forced, self indulgent, and overly moralistic. pros: - excellent graphics - incredible environments to explore - dated, yet IMO still effective gameplay - an extension of TLOU's tense resource scarce combat and exploration - some very good story moments (in particular the flashbacks) that will make TLOU fans nostalgic - the game is arguably worth playing for these alone. - The game tries to do something very daring in its story, which is a good thing. As is the inclusion of new characters who are openly transgender (no, not Abby, but another new character), and who do grow close to you as the game progresses. negative: - very badly told story with a ton of "WTF, why did they just do that?" moments that are obviously out of place, are unintentionally funny, and appear to be included solely as a means to get the story moving - some unlikeable new characters that give nothing new to TLOU universe - The game attempts to make a player question the point of violence, yet does this by never giving you a choice in key moments, and makes the possibility for complete stealth gameplay (no kills) virtually impossible (eg. in order to fully explore an environment and gather resources you will have to kill all enemies, otherwise full exploration is near impossible. The game thus forces you to play in a certain way otherwise you will either not progress, or will miss half of its contents - significantly, this is not due to difficulty, but rather a failure in game design). On the whole if the story writing and screenplay had been better the structure of this game could have really paid off... I found the idea of having a main character killed off early, and playing a part of the game as the antagonist, actually quite good - it is just how this is done, who these people are, and what they do that makes you laugh due to the cringe, which is an unintentional outcome of the poor writing. It gets an 8 due to the fun gameplay, incredible environments, great voice acting, and graphics... having finished the game it did manage to leave a profound effect, as the overall experience was still enjoyable despite the serious pacing and storytelling issues.
Нил Дракманн - ну что, любил чужие заслуги на себя брать, ну что как тебе собственные? По поду, ты играл? или сюжет средненький но ставлю 10 и за хейта? Ребят какой хей, игра одиночное, без сетевой части и если вы пишите, что сюжет средненький, то игра уже на 10-ку не может быть. В Quake или CoD вы можете сказать, поиграй потом пиши, тут механика либо понравится либо нет. А про сюжет, можно узнать по разному и что бы его понять, не обязательно играть.
I realise what the game is trying to do and say, but it does it so poorly. The leaks didn't help this game at all. I played The Last of Us on PS3 and PS4, uncluding the DLC, it was easily one of the best games I had played in a decade. The Last of Us Part 2, feels like it was changed to suit a narrative outside of the game. Playing as Abby feels like a 10 hour side quest with no resolution. i understand that the characters from the original have grown, but there situation really hasnt, yet their personas have changed too much from the first game to the point where I don't recognise them anymore. Such a disappointment, the only remaining thing this game will have is it's divisiveness. Nice graphics and great sound. Lack lustre story. Wait till it's on sale, or get it secondhand.
First of all this game does not deserve a 0/10 even if people disagree or are upset by the story of this game. Clear talent and polished work is obviously visible in this game so to give a 0 just to send a message and boycot a game just makes you uncredible as a review in my opinion. Is this game decisive? Yes! For sure but in my honest opinion this game is masterpeice in every way possible! Try the game for yourself!
First of all its a great game, I enjoyed the majority of my time I played but unfortunately its not nearly as gripping as the tale told in the first The Last Of Us. First of all he combat I did actually enjoy quite a bit, it felt hard hitting and visceral which is super satisfying, each arrow shot looked like it really impacted each and every enemy, the mechanics with dodging and attacking I haven't seen elsewhere, so great work in that respect. The graphics and environments are stunning as expected from Naughty Dog, the detail is crazy with every corner and crevice filled with overgrown plants and details and truly makes you feel as if you are in a post apocalyptic world. Truly pushes the PS4 to its limits whilst keeping a stable experience. Unfortunately now we have to move onto the story, which I didn't think I would have to say about a The Last of Us title, but its not very good, pretty bad in fact, and that is it separated from the spectacle of the first game. It feels really messy with a constant, jarring shift in perspective between characters, some who Naughty Dog really want you to care about, so much so that whole sections, or even the whole of the story will just seem terrible if you don't care enough about them. In comparison, The Last of Us gave us Ellie and Joel to relate with and even if you somehow didn't like the characters you still understood that there is a mission to be done to help the human race. Here there isn't any of that and completely relies on you caring hard for those characters with no story backbone but that. I can see what Naughty Dog attempted with this style of story telling but unfortunately it didn't succeed and I really had to force myself through the latter part of the game... There's alot more I could say about the story but that would start getting into spoiler territory and that's isnt what this is for. So overall I would say 6.5/10 but due to the rating system here I feel as if I would be stretching too hard to give this game a 7/10 so for me, here it takes a 6. Pros: > Satisfying combat with visceral fighting. > Gorgeous environments and amazing graphics. Cons: > Storyline was ambitious but didnt meet the bar to keep me hooked. > Emotional attachment to the characters were relied on too heavily for the story, and I didn't feel emotionally invested in them for the story to hit its beats. I saw the critic reviews and am honestly shocked, it feels more and more difficult to trust them these days. I can totally understand if someone happened to enjoy this game, but seeing an insane amount of reviews saying 9/10 or 10/10 is kind of shocking that these are the people who rate these games. Always read user reviews before purchasing a game! We aren't paid off like many critics actually are, we are just real gamers like yourself who are emotionally invested in purchasing a game. I hope Naughty Dog learn from this and improve for their next adventure. - Sam note: I would only recommend buying this game once it is on offer for around $30 max. If you are looking for a different PS4 game to play now before the PS4's life cycle is over I highly recommend Ghost of Tsushima, masterpiece of this generation.
The hate train showed me again how toxic and retarded the gaming community is. gameplay atmosphere, sound, graphics are outstanding. Yes the story is somehow not what i expected or wanted but its not that bad, as a stand alone game actually pretty interesting. People get too emotional and forget logic, joel was not a hero and doomed humanity. I had a great time with the game, but still first one is storywise better.
Graphisme Hallucinant Gameplay Bon Doublage VO et VF Très bonne Développement des personnages très bien écrit Scénario très bien écrit Sens du détail dans tout Musique très bien interprété Ambiance sonore un peu trop en retrait Boucle de gameplay Maybe game of the year..
Right off the bat I'm going to address the elephant in the room. The story is actually awful. You're forced in the first hour of the game to see one of the beloved main characters from the first game die to the villain (who's sexual orientation for me didn't matter but the way they were written did). Then it becomes a revenge story with Ellie but the catch is that the characters around her are forgettable and barely passable for a game of the last of us part 2's expected calibur. The voice acting and motion capture was solid but that's the best I can do. You're then going to end the game poorly with not even killing the character the goal is to get revenge for. The game is full of plot whole also Gameplay is the same as the last game in the most par and I will not review it high for it. It is clunky sometimes in it's ai much like older games. The graphics are phenomenal but we expected them to be.
I'm not a bot but I know a bad game when I see one. GG Neil Duckman. Good graphics and gameplay but the story is very upsetting at least and this is a game more about the story, isnt it?
Masterpiece !!!!! advantages: beautiful graphics attention to details This game changed my life. I understand some people only want to play Fortnite, that's fine, but this game is the future of gaming. Character development is quite usual actually. It's nice to play a new game,
I was a bit nervous given all the controversy and drama surrounding the game. I really liked the original title, and was looking forward to this one. Well, it is amazing. It's not a flawless game, but no game is and this is definitely one of the best games ever made. I cannot believe that so many are review bombing this. They have not even played the game. Grow up. It's pathetic.
So this game is VERY OBVIOUSLY getting review bombed. I see review bombing as an extremely distasteful and immature practice... First off, there is NO WAY that this many people finished the game after only being out a few hours (when the negative reviews started popping up), therefore they're basing their reviews off of hearsay, political views and/or very initial opinions at the least - which is not fair. Admittedly I'm only about 5 hours in and I'm working from home if that tells you anything - I gots the time to put in and I've barely grazed the surface. I mean are all these people just like "F$*% it" and staying up to play for 30 hours straight ignoring the rest of their lives? I don't think so... The story-line *5 hours-in* is emotionally charged, the characters are ok - not mind-blowing but also not worthy of a zero... The very first thing that caught my attention is the graphics. Now I'm a PC gamer and I originally only bought the PS4 for Bloodborne. I've come to appreciate the PS4 as it's opened me up a whole new category of PS4 exclusives which are mostly top tier quality games. Within the first 20 minutes I got used to the 24fps @ 4K on the PS4 (down from 144fps @4K on my monster PC) and in all honesty I was pretty blown away... (•_•) ( •_•)>⌐■-■ (⌐■_■) I think the problem of the blatant review bombing stems from within two areas... 1) there have been some leaks and some of these story-based leaks have been extremely unpopular with hardcore fans and 2) The use of LGBT characters is seen by many in gaming culture as a sneaky way of forcing a political agenda onto the audience. This kind of thing definitely happens and it can ruin a game if it's over the top, but IMHO it's NOT the case here. Before even giving the game a chance many stubborn fans are screaming "SJW! SJW!". For myself, I appreciate diversity in both life and in games. I love seeing/hearing a story from someone who doesn't make similar lifestyle decisions as I do or maybe belongs to a subculture that I don't have much knowledge of. It's eye opening and by having some diversity in games it only helps the community. I do admit that I don't like political agendas shoved down my throat either but that is NOT what is happening here. She just happens to be gay, that's it, end of story - get over it. I honestly think that by continuously bringing this up it only makes the gaming community look like we're bigoted/closed-minded and I know that many of us are not. As I stated, I'm only about 5 hours in and I've been trying not to catch any spoilers... I will come back and write an HONEST review once I have finished the game but for now at least, take user reviews with a grain of salt.
This is gonna be my honest review about the Last of Us Part 2. I will start by saying I love the first game, it's probably in my top 3 of all time. What made that game so great? The characters and the journey of the story. So when you already kill the main character of the first game in the first 2h of the game, that's really hard to take in. I just want to be clear on something: I don't have a problem with Joel dying, but I have a problem with how it was executed. It was just so unrealistic and stupid and something Joel & Tommy never would have done. That really put a damper on me liking the game. The problem in itself is that ND lied about the game in the trailers. Nothing was indicating Joel was dying in the first couple of hours and I'm gonna guess 90 % would have wanted a story/journey with Joel and Ellie again. The positive things about this game is of course the graphics, amazing AI and great combat. But what does that do when after 2 hours of the game and u don't feel engaged in the story anymore? So I did play it, but I never really enjoyed it. The fact that you have to play as Joel's killer in half the game also made me seriously consider putting the controller down. This is ND weakest game to date and they have to seriously do something special to hook me the way they have done before as I won't really trust what they will put in the trailers of their next game, whatever that is.

Im writing this as a huge fan of the original and after i finished the game on harderst difficulty. Its not just the bad story, its the pacing too, i think the game had to be around 15 hours not 25, you have to walk around aimlesly or watch boring cutscenes for 50% of your playtime. Also i encountered many glitches here and there, a few game crashes and a couple of times.it failed to load, so its not as polished as youd expect from a AAA title. On the plus side the grahics are stunning, music is incredible and acting is oscar winning. Unfortunatelly the flawless presentation is not enough to overshadow the serious issues of this game.
After 55 hrs to make this beauty 100% platinum what can i say this game is amazing, you need to understand the story to judge it.....its beautiful....next step..... the graphics, the combat, how the blood spreads....the mechanics of this game are awesome everything 10/10 for me plus game of the year, Congratulations naughty dog and sony
In the beginning i was so excited but when joel died i want nothing but vengeance. First 3 three days are very good but then.. Why i play as mercyless abby. Just why . Her foolish teenager stuff. Relationship with owen. Just feels meaningless. When she beat the hell up ellie. I was so angry. Why GAme forces us for playing as abby. Joells killer. Story is just poor . Its betrayel to the last of us, joel
Everything about this game is exceptional. The story is seamless and the graphics are near on perfect. This game is larger than the first and you can certainly tell when walking around the beautiful environments Naughty Dog have created. If I had one Criticism it would be that it had to end! I pray for a part 3 to wrap up the story.
The story here is awful. Gameplay is very much the same as it was in TLOU. Which is fine. To be honest, no one loved the first one because of the gameplay, it was the story. The game works. It looks amazing, no bugs or glitches. Great work as far as making the game. Now the story is trash. The TLDR: Joel dies. And not in some sacrificing for the power of love type of way. Just beat in the head with a golf club. Ellie and friends go for revenge. They all make stupid decisions and die. You play as Abby and beat the crap out of Ellie and her girlfriend. As Ellie you save Abby and get beat up again. You get 2 fingers bitten off and your relationship with your girl is destroyed. You go through all of this, just to let Abby live. WTF. At least have the balls to follow though at this point. Ellie goes the whole game murdering people and animals left and right, just to not kill the bad guy. And yes I consider Abby the bad guy. I don't have any sympathy for her. Blame it on the storytelling. And if you think this is what people wanted or this is what we deserve you need to take a long look in the mirror.
Игра красивая и графонистая, но сюжет полный кал. Революционных новшеств в механике нет, графон продвинутый уже мы видели в rdr 2, думал сюжетная часть интересная будет. Просидает фпс даже на ps pro. Везде ЛГБТ посылы, слили главного героя вначале, страшные женщины, трансгендеры в игре похожие на горилл. Просто взяли и плюнули в лицо фанатам, не такого мы ждали... Очень любил первую часть, прости Джоэл мы все просрали. Еще пиарят и рекламируют этот ужас в игре, очень большие чемоданы sony потратили на журнализтов и реклам компанию. Нил Дрюкман иди в сраку со своей Саркисян
Игра очень скучная, откровенно мерзкий сюжет. SJW-повестка стала причиной бредовых идей авторов, я про воюющих беременных женщин с большим животом.
Depressingly fantastic tale about deeply flawed people in a flawed world. Performances and the script keeps you engaged in this crueling revenge story. In the end you're left wondering about revenge and justice. Where lies the line to just stop and head back. Where lies the line when your personal vendetta is costing too much. Still it is not perfect game. (I chose 10 because that is closer to my final rating than 9 ever will be) Although the game is great in a lot of ways, I think it suffers a little bit in its length. Sudden character change, in the midway point of the game, felt quite awkward at first but the context it gives to the story, made it so worth it. (I personally think Abby is a wonderfully written and executed character) In summary: The Last of Us Part 2 is technically almost flawless game with a gripping story filled with great performances. Although suffering in its length the experience and conclusion leaves you with a smile and a tear in the eye. Rating 95/100
Nan très surpris pas le scénario la trame de l'histoire comment il nous la raconte visuellement magnifique. Apres je peux comprendre que bcp de personnes n'aime pas surtout le début du jeu est très dure ..... mais le studio a eu qd meme les couilles de le faire !!

Gameplay fantastic, Ellie are gay is ok , Joel died so fast big mistake so negative, but Ebby no comments terrible character, I am very said about the history l hope the last of us part 3 will be fantastic like the first one, RIP Joel
I don't even know how to put everything this game has made me feel in words... Could have been an amazing game, but the story is beyond awful, in the first 2 hours it will break you...I just continued playing to get revenge, just to get to the end and not having that option... I wish I could get my money back... If you liked tlou 1 don't buy this,for me there was never a part 2.
Total **** show, i would give this game pass if elie went dark and killed all these pieces of **** especially that child that abby protected and of course here herself, but to go on killing spree and not to kill you main nemesis......is like being spit on your face, ending makes no sense Joel killed her father she killed him, Elie killed true the game more than 100 of here people and Abby is like who cares about them we are good.... The story is just bad, you can make **** look like most delicious meal but if its **** you ain't gonna eat it even if its presented by world class chef.
Une aventure épique et une histoire très émouvante. Le jeu présente un graphisme bien travaillé, avec les traits des personnages très expressifs. Des interactions intéressant (exemple lorsqu'il faut jouer de la guitare via le pavé tactile. La sensibilité est là quand vous souhaitez jouer telle ou telle corde de la guitare sèche). Le crafting et les affrontements face aux ennemis ne change pas forcément par rapport au premier épisode The Last Of Us mais est cependant beaucoup plus ouvert (des rues plus grandes, plus de magasins et de maisons à fouiller pour survivre). Un jeu plus sombre et plein de surprises.
Joel survived for 24 years in the post apocalyptic world, has so much experience surviving, yet they TRUST strangers and reveal their name. They ruined the game.Terrible plot. They would not try to expand their town in the first place.


Let me preface this by saying I was a MASSIVE fan of the first game, it is dark, beautiful and wonderfully designed. Much of the design remains, and the graphics are indeed stunning. The story however is pure unadulterated trash, is incredibly disturbing (not in a creepy intentional way ala Bloodborne) and the character development is atrocious. The disparity between the professional critics and average consumer is also disturbing, how does this happen?
Im on the last chapter of the game and i still want abby to die a horrible death. Naughty dog has done a terrible job at making me not hate abby or her friends. You know you've failed at developing your new characters to be likeable when I shouted with joy at manny getting shot in the head by tommy and seeing his eye explode. I cheered tommy on when he had the upper hand on abby and screamed kill her several times. This is the most generic and tedious revenge story ever with the most obvious message. Yes mr neil druckmann we get it revenge and violence is bad mkay.


Good graphics, just didn't like the storyline in my opinion. But everything else is good
While visuals and soundtracks were great story was most important thing to me about this game and it was simply lacking and boring.Abby was not likeable at all.
The Last of Us 2 was probably the most disappointing game I've ever played to this day. The gameplay and graphics are really good but you have to understand this is a sequel, not a new IP. The story of this game is absolutely disgusting and stupid which disrespects the previous game in so many ways. I'm definitely going to return the game and I really can't recommend it to anyone.
персонажи не раскрыты. ГГ первой части слили очень тупо. Ок что его убрали, но хоть бы обыграли это по нормальному. Вторую половину игры пытаются заставить соболезновать унылому безмотивационному герою. От концовки блевать охота. В целом - тупо скучно. Сюжет просто уныл. даже если говорить про графику и анимации. На половине локаций нет теней. Динамические тени лагают. Анимации дерганые. На добивание и на подбор предметов сделали только по одной анимации. Даже в инди играх как минимум по 2 делают.
It looks great but the story is awful. I feel like I'm having SJW/LGBTQ rammed down my throat. I've no problem with either but am glad the leaks warned me ahead of purchase. I think the first game will forever hold a place in my heart and definetly feel let down by the second. This is certainly not the direction I would of liked to see the story go. I've rated it a 5 out of 10, a 5 for the graphics but a 0 for the story. What a shame.
El juego falla en lo más importante, la historia. En cuanto a gráficos, música, ambientación y jugabilidad un diez, pero este juego es una aventura narrativa y todos esos elementos tienen que estar al servicio de la historia que quieres contar. Si la historia es deficiente el juego pierde su propósito,como es el caso aquí, tristemente.

The fact that naughty dog is shifting blame on the gamers for critiquing their weak rushed plots and pathetic writing is blasphemous . Criticism should be taken as a learning experience not pushed aside with arrogance. Naughty dog is the best example of how People at the top of the industry acts. Humble urself naughty dog u turn from our favorite gaming developers to a clown in one night. Now to the game they is so much **** I could critique that the comment will last too long but to summarize it. “Making a game understood doesn’t make a great game“ it’s how u make ur gamers understand the game and how complex and interesting u can make game that’s ur expertise and u lost it stop arguing and learn from it.
It's a good game, massive improvement from the first, yes the story is a bit dragged Joel dies, well how the *** did some people watch Game of Thrones then? Anyway. A bit shorter that I expect. And just wanted to say that my PS4 was literally a jet plane during the whole play session. But that must be because this is a next gen game played on current gen machine.

Jogo foi perfeito , jogabilidade está perfeito , a história foi perfeito , gostei demais o jogo de tiro e destruição de corpos , vc caprichou parabéns.
Graphics - 10/10. Console noice - 10/10. Strong womans - 10/10. Gameplay - 7/10. Story - 0/10. Game - 1/10, thanks to the first hour. The rest of the game - basically trash.
The screenwriter ignored all the story, all the connections, even the character personalities from the first game in order to make something appealing to the woke generation. Disappointed as hell about how it turned out, honestly. First time I ever regretted preordering a game on PS4, and first time I had to actually force myself to play it, to finish it. Never had issues being glued to the screen on a ps4 game before, never had issued of being so displeased with a constant and repetitive reminder that the character has a different tastes in some areas. Outer Worlds also had a side-story containing something similar, but so much more tasteful made. Did not need to repeat it in almost every verbal interaction to get the point across, as TLOU 2 did. Ending was stupid and pointless, after all that death and destruction for the purpose of killing someone, to just let them go? C'mon... Get a better screenwriter, IF there will be a 3rd one. Although, if you actually look around ,you'd realize that so many of the old fans have given up on this game and potentially this company. That includes me as well. Games magazines may praise it as long as they want, Metacritic may delete the comments that they consider to be hate-filled, but they all tell a general story of how the ones that actually paid for the game, us, players, are highly dissatisfied by what was thrown at us.

Filled with plot conveniences, underdeveloped characters, and about as subtle as a sledgehammer. The admittedly fun gameplay can't carry this miserable narrative for the game's excessive run time.
I made a metacritic account just so I could leave this review. I honestly didn't think this game could disappoint me, despite hearing there was controversy in the leaks (which I successfully avoided, but honestly it wouldn't have mattered). The gameplay is still fun. Stealthily killing enemies and zombies will never grow old. And the flashback scenes with Joel and Ellie are honestly the best parts of the game for me. My biggest problem with the game is being forced to play as Abby for half of it. It's not fun. I want to know what happened to Ellie back at the theater. All your inventory is reset. And I hated the character. She's specifically introduced as an unlikable character due to her killing Joel. Only after you're forced to play as her for several hours do they try to establish her likability. Why is likability so important, you may ask. Well, imagine in the last game, you played as David, the cannibal rapist for half the game. Sure, we may have slowly learned to empathize with him and his backstory or whatever, but is that really enjoyable? Especially when you're forced to almost kill your favorite characters. To be forced to play as Abby for half the game when we could've spent more time with Ellie or Joel is a terrible decision. ND, you had one job: continue Ellie and Joel's story. And you **** failed spectacularly.
Impressionante o quanto este jogo me cativou. O rumo que a história foi tomando te prende cada vez mais, não dá vontade de parar de jogar. Rumo à platina.
Another huge disconnect between the public that plays these games, and the "journalists" that are paid to give a perfect score. You're not fooling anyone with your "IGN 10/10". Treat this "game" as a wallpaper generator and you've got your partial money's worth(stunning visuals; hi5 to all the poor workers that were forced to work grueling hours to help this steaming pile see the light of day), anything beyond that and your disappointment will be monumental. Neil, I know you were hoping for a perfect score from the people that weren't paid to review it, but you ended up with 3.4(so far, hopefully hitting that 0 mark soon). I hope we subverted your expectations too. Rest in pepperonis, TLOU franchise.

For me, a game is a fun gameplay and a solid story... I can't care less about graphics...just finished the last of us part 2 after replaying the first one to refresh my memory on the amazing story anticipating a continuation to the cliff hanger at the end and generally to see more of the amazing duo Ellie and Joel...well I didn't get that...not even a comparable story in quality... Story, The ugly: 0 I see what they were going with it but they flopped terribly in the execution it's infuriating...I mean who tf wrote this? A teenage intern? I really have nothing more to say without spoiling...there is a ton of other games with silly stories and who reads this must have seen a movie or played a game with bad writing that goes nowhere but this time the story was perfect and the sequel ruins everything (take Game of Thrones season 8 as an example)... To put it in one sentence: compared to the first one it gets a zero from me nothing more sadly. Gameplay, The bad: 6 The gameplay is the same with some refinements...it still is clunky and last-gen just looks cooler so a 6 I guess... Graphics, The good: n/a The graphics are very good...I really don't care though..oh character design is somehow worse than the first one... The last of us gets a 3 from me...oof it's physically painful to say this out loud
Just Awful. Destroyed the legacy. Its not a game its an interactive propaganda.
In technical terms, there are no questions for the last of us 2, but the storyline of the game, this is what I want to forget. I don't have any questions for Ellie, but I have questions for all the new ones, they're not interesting, and I don't want to empathize with them. So 5/10
From a gameplay perspective it's really good game and visually it's nothing short of a masterpiece but I can't I'm really disappointed with the story. I can understand killing Joel but why do they make you play as Abby for half of the game? It isn't a bad story by itself it just doesn't make sense if you have played the first game. Still I'd say it's a game worth playing even if just for the gameplay and level design.
Скучная игра. Сюжета нет. Гемплей хороший, но его мало. Одинироад муви. Прошел половину, больше не смог. Без джоеля игра ниочем
The game itself as an adventure is good. But the plot of the game did not like me at all. Pour Joel on the second hour of the game-Joel who went with Ellie through a bunch of bandits, cannibals, etc. helps the first girl on steroids. After Joel's death, you are filled with hatred, and you go to get revenge. OK you play for Ellie and get used to it, but then the second part you play for Abby - for the one who so cruelly killed Joel, why, why, I want to end this part as fast as possible. Not once did I get the hang of Abby's story. Closer to the end, there is no strength to play, but damn it when it's over. And the ending is just complete **** you can't get back at Abby - there's just no way. Another of the disadvantages is the obsession with LGBT topics, I do not condemn LGBT, but for me the game is clearly too much. I miss Joel-the most adequate character in the game.
После Ведьмака 3 и RDR2 в такое невозможно играть, просто не воспринимаешь как игру. Героев просрали, стелс унылый,боевка унылая, только графика радует, но на графике одной не уедешь. Сюжет дерьмо полное и если ты думаешь, что я его не понял, то ты глубоко ошибаешься. Сюжет есть в рдр2 и герои там есть, ведьмаке и во многих други играх, а в этой игре сюжет дерьмо и герои тоже. Спасибо Тоше Салогвинову, что впаривает такую дичь народу, как и ассассинов в свое время и фоллаут 4.
I am big fan for the last of us 1 but part 2 it is big shame make me sick doesn't deserve to buy the game also Neil have mentality issue and he but it in the game also the story all about lesbein



Finished the game. Played for the whole week end. Now I can say: graphics and gameplay are top notch. Amazing. But the plot of this game it's incredibly stupid and boring. The worst plot ever created for a videogame. The last chapter and the end of this game is even worse. Characters and plot are upon the stupid. A videogame with great graphics and gameplay (thanks only to nd's graphical artists and coders ) wasted by a stupid plot written by a very bad writer.
Si algo no me esperaba de esta entrega, es que pudiera superar en todo a la primera, con lo alto que había dejado el listón, simplemente increíble. En cuanto a narrativa, es sin duda el mejor juego de la generación, la vuelta de tuerca que le han dado a la historia es una pasada, sorprendente de principio a fin y la jugabilidad es como la del primero pero mejorada en todos los apartados. Para mi, lo más flojo de la primera parte era el gunplay, muy parecido a uncharted, en esta segunda parte ha mejorado muchísimo, se siente el peso de las armas, y el sigilo es muy satisfactorio. Solo falta que añadan el modo multijugador para ser, junto a Bloodborne, el juego de la generación.
Let's support the developers, they now lack this and support for: Pro-labor brutality and the smallest details. The plot is not bad, the gameplay has not changed much. And the summons, well, it didn't bother me.
One of the most disappointing sequels in video game history, if you enjoyed the original game for its characters and story then this game will not be for you, if you disliked the nonsense plot of Star Wars The Last Jedi or the lazy writing of game of thrones season 8 then once again, you will be disappointed playing a game that takes the story in narrative directions that should never have left the writers room, the game is FILLED with unlikable petty characters who are forced down your throat as the game tries make you sympathize with them while also spitting on the beloved characters of the original in the name of SUBVERSION. The game is simply just substanceless misery porn that employs cheap shock tactics to make the player feel sad and angry although it will probably just leave you disappointed and confused in the end because it is one of the most anti-climactic stories I have ever witnessed in any medium.
S*** story with agenda behind it the gameplay is good but it's similar to the the first one after you finish it you feel so lost and not engaged with this this poor writing story and character and there choices and motivation
The only reason you will see more positive reviews than negative, is because of the corrupt industry of video game journalism. Apparently, only people with positive reviews opinions are valid. The double standards here are incredible. Seems my previous review was removed. The game was a let down, the story ruins the franchise and panders to nonsense. The replay-ability of this game is also non existent, once you finish the game that's it. Nothing really left to do.
This is a how the gender ideology destroy another thing.. This was one of the most waiting games. But when you want to force add some external ideas to a game you will destroy the good things. Anita Sarkeesian put her hands on the game script forcing to be a lesbian story trying to “educate “ about external and not related topics. This should be a game not a political thing.
Este não é tipo de jogo para todos, principalmente aqueles que esperam finais felizes. E jogo para te fazer pensar mais ao mesmo tempo interagir profundamente na jogabilidade e na imersão do mundo do jogo. Gráficos, jogabilidade, história e imersão são perfeitos.
Waited for almost 7 years for a worthy sequel but guess what? what we as fans and consumers get is just mediocre hot pile of garbage in terms of storytelling and character development. The only saving grace for the game is the graphics and that's about it. Good job for making one of the most anticipated games into a utter disappointment. By the way, please change the name of the game from The Last of Us Part 2 to The Laugh of Us Part 2 if there is a chance, period.
This is the last time I buy a Naughty Dog game. Disgusting treatment of beloved characters - Imagine if the next Zelda game has Gannindorf kills Link in the worst way possible, spits on his corpse, and then forces you to control Gannondorf to hunt and kill Zelda. If this childish effort at writing is the direction that Sony is heading for PS5, then I will be seriously considering dropping out of consoles altogether. For context I'm a 43 year old man with a decent income that spends a lot of money on games and really do not like seeing what is happening with gaming at the moment. Get rid of these childish writers that do things for likes on Twitter and start entertaining gamers again.


If this game were from another franchise it would be a solid 9, but this game being a second part of a true videogame masterpiece, it's just a 4. The story and the events doesn't match with the characters we knew and the excellent Gameplay and graphics just don't save a horrible history with characters I couldn't care less.
Despues de tantos años de la obra maestra del primero, nadie podria imaginarse que esta segunda parte acabaria asi. De verdad que no entiendo como la prensa ha valorado tan alto este juego. Jugablemente no aporta nada nuevo, pero tampoco le hacia falta, el primero ya era bueno y este segundo lo pule en todo. Tecnicamente es sobresaliente, aunque lejos de top grafico de esta gen marcado por rdr2. En donde este juego me parte el alama, y parece que esta hecho PARA CABREAR a los fans, es en su guion, su narrativa y las drasticas decisiones adoptadas. Hay gente que lo justifican diciendo que son decisiones valientes, y es cierto, son valientes, pero no puedes adoptar decisiones que nadie quiere, y que cabrean al jugador. No puedo recomendar esta segunda parte al que le haya gustado la primera, es imcompatible. La mayor decepcion de la decada para mi.
I hope Neil resigns. The game industry does not need the likes of him. Absolutely a disgrace of a game. I do not care if a game has the best graphics ever, if the story is bad there is nothing saving it.
So funny that just IGN Japan wrote professional honest review on a game. Im not against the teenager's ideas of this crap with good graphics. It just need more talented writers, like in RDR 2. American games from a masterpieces became sjw twits. Wasteland 3 postapocalypse is more real than this untalented crap
Огромное спасибо студии ,за такой шедевр,ждал с нетерпением !!!Прошел игру за 3 дня,ЭМОЦИИ не передать текстом ,но скажу все же пару слов-это просто что то нереальное,лучшая игра поколения! Куча неожиданных поворотов, и моментов от которых ты в шоке сидишь и не можешь отойти часми из за произошедшего на экране! Новые механики по сравнению с 1 частью ,боевка,графика ,можно долго перечислять...СПАСИБО ЕЩЕ РАЗ РАЗРАБОТЧИКИ!!!Аплодирую стоя!
The only one who gets a happy ending is the villain, who killed Joel, Killed your friends and girlfriend. Lets just pretend the firts game is the only one, this sequel never existed... its a shame, first game was such a masterpiece

El peor the last of us que he jugado este the last of us II tiene la nota de los usuarios que se merece, la prensa, como no, sigue cobrando por hacer su publicidad.
The whole plot, and Joel's death being the spotlight of it, was just a huge shock value **** show, in which tragic events take place to our beloved heroes of the previous game just so can feel shocked and sad. Very cheap way to attract emotion. If you are fan of the original The Last Of Us, do yourself a favor and never buy this game. Matter of fact, delete it from your memory. It is just not worth it.
.. This game took the gaming to a whole new level in every technical aspect, the story is deep and dark it's about two different people trying to get out of the vengeance loop and find there humanity along the way , one of the best games i have ever played and i have been playing for more than 25 years.
Overall the Last Of Us Two is far from good. The game has state of the art graphics, animation, combat and mechanics. However the game is held back by the story and the way it’s told. I have never been more unmotivated to play a game my whole life. Some of the ideas for the story are ok on their own but are executed very poorly. If the gameplay had started with Abby and we where on a revenge mission but didn’t know who we where going after, would have created suspense and conflict in the player as we would’ve seen a character we actually liked killing our beloved Joel. However we still would have been like I just want to play as Joel and Ellie so either way the player doesn’t like playing as Abby. Also the developers wanted to change to minds of players and show that good is a point of view. The way Joel died didn’t sit well with me either. The whole point of Joel’s character is that he is super careful and would always take it to the next level to protect Ellie as he felt a farther daughter bond with her and couldn’t bare to lose that again. So why he just randomly trusted some stranger is beyond me, it’s completely out of character. The game is also very politically and try’s to hard to tell you the way you should think. By themselves the politics where ok but they build up and where to much to take. I have nothing against the issues, but when it’s getting shoved down my through that I must feel this way and I must share the same opinion I don’t like that. I enjoyed working my way though abandoned town clearing out infected. Or clearing out camps and posts of the Wolves clan. I thought the combat worked well and the mechanics worked well to keep the game running smoothly. And during the game you get to visit some places that look amazing! One thing about combat that could’ve been improved was a slowing of time when you chose weapons I found to often that once I has bring up the menu, picked my gun and reloaded it the infected had a couple hits on me. Overall I enjoyed playing the game but found myself to often not wanting to play due to the story line and the bad characters and character development in the game. And it’s a shame because to first one is one of my all time favourite games and it’s a shame we had to wait seven years for this. The game has incredible graphics, combat and mechanics, and I think this had potential to be better. - Brett
This is an abomination in compare to the first game and a lame attempt of Neil Drunckman to force his agenda!No justice is given to joels death and you play the half game as that guy abby??!?!on top of that you dont kill abby in the end!!!Naughty dog is done after that.
The last of us part 2 lacks nuance. This story may seem like it's about revenge... but it's a tale about forgiveness. As the player you immediately hate certain characters and want blind revenge. In the end it all comes together and wants to show you that no matter what happened, you can still forgive people and find peace in yourself, even without fulfilling your vengeance; which wouldn't leave you satisfied anyway. If we're all driven by revenge, we will never find peace. Find it in your heart to forgive your enemies. Up until the ending, the entire game is filled with death; useless and mostly without purpose. I didn't feel for most of the characters; like at all. Jesse was, for example, a funny, witty and like-able character. He was killed off with a snap. Soooo... okay??? Super edgy... There's a HUGE disconnect between the story they wanted to tell and how they told it and what it ended up making the player feel. The game made me feel like **** throughout about 60% of it. Not sure if that was the goal, but you can't tell me a game is great when I just want the 'pain' to end and see the ending. I waited 7 years, was hyped for more than 2 of those, just to literally sit there and consciously WANT the game to end... Yikes. It feels like I'm playing for a message; not the story in of itself. Also, you can't tell me they were so passionate when they left behind (no pun intended) multiplayer, just to have the only thing being a message shoved down our throats, because that's what the whole thing boils down to: Revenge bad. As it's own, standalone experience: Very strong 5 for me. As a sequel to the first one: Probably a 1 or 2. If you did things well in the first one, you have to be criticized if the sequel doesn't manage to at least do what the first one did. I feel like a moron for judging something before having finished it, although human beings are easily manipulated and the illusion of choice and cleverness can be achieved with the right knowledge. Also, what the **** is up with the **** and manipulative trailers??? Non-pre-rendered cutscenes are dangerous man. Go back and change things without any amount of effort...

Do not like forced story = be politic correct in games ore films = only get you hate = whatch star wars ore the last of use part 2 en match more . Grafix = good When mas peopel do not like you can not tel them thei are rong ore errase their comment .
the story is not what naughty dog promised end lied to us played the game twice and have platinum trophies and I do not like the story The Last of Us is Ellie and Joel and that is gone so it the story and characters that you love in the first game just DONT BUY IT IT IS NOT WOURD YOUR TIME

After completing the game, it has to be said that this could've been a masterpiece. There are aspects of the game that are a 10/10 .. graphics, animations, exploration, atmosphere are all so well done and made the game bearable to play through. Unfortunately, The Last of Us is a story driven game and this story was just not very good. It felt rushed and lazily written, it was also about 5-10 hours too long. I think the story could have worked if it was written like an adult and not a 5 year old. There is too much to go into on why the story just didn't work for me, I just didn't like it. It does a major disservice to the fans who waited a long 7 years for a new adventure with their beloved characters and it's just not what we got, especially after what misleading advertisement would have told us otherwise. For the ones that loved the game that is awesome, but for the ones who feel cheated, it just is not a great game. I didn't hate the game but i would never recommend it to anyone. I think ND has lost their way and is out of touch with what the fan base wants and expects, i'll be extremely skeptical of anything else that has their name attached to it.
They completely deconstructed the main characters and plot. They add in characters that you will never care for and force you to play as one of them. This plot is by far the worse that naughty dog has ever done. Not a masterpiece.
List of complaints about the writing -Slow opening unlike the exciting opening of part 1. -Joel’s song about “losing you” is a little on the nose. -What is the point of the opening flashback only to skip 4 years? -Lame teen drama. -Dull opening in Jackson. -Ellie doesn’t feel like Ellie anymore. Where’s her sarcasm and wit? -Dialogue between Ellie and Dina in general is very stilted and awkward and dull. -Overuse of the “knocked unconscious” trope. -Dina is a very dull love interest. -Convenient writing like Abby’s group having photos of themselves with written names found in a bag. -More lame teen drama like Dina being pregnant. -Constant use of flashbacks. -Traveling alone in this zombie infested, dangerous world doesn’t seem to have consequences since everybody seems to be doing it like Jesse. -Even MORE lame teen drama with Ellie being jealous of Jesse. -Contrived dilemma of needing to go back to Jackson or continuing after Abby because Dina is pregnant. Why did Dina even come along? -They do another “giraffe” moment with Abby and the zebras.- -“We’re no better than them” cliché. -Flashback date with Own and Abby is unbelievably cringe and boring. -Owen and Abby’s aquarium date mirroring Joel and Ellie’s museum flashback. Tacky and contrived. Be more original. -The unnecessary sex scene with Owen and Abby. -Character falling into water and disappearing trope with Tommy. -The scene with life on Ellie’s farm is very dull. -I have to round up sheep. Really engaging gameplay. -Boring flashback with the barn dance. More lame teen drama
Jogabilidade : 9 Historia: 8,5 Gráficos: 9,5 Dublagem: 9 Vale a Pena: Sim, praticamente obrigatório, o jogo tira tudo que ps4 pode oferecer, chegando ao ponto de parecer um jogo de próxima geração.
The story focus only on agenda disregarding the main characters of the first game just to pander to the SJW who rarely buy games. do not buy if you like good story.
Graphic 10/10, Environment, 10/10, gameplay 8/10, story... 0/10. Imagine the next Zelda game, link is killed right at the beginning by a random Yiga clan dude because he's pissed that Link killed he's beloved leader in the previous game. Than, the game force you to play as Zelda for revenge, and right when you meet the murderer, you are force to play his story about how the death of his beloved leader destroyed him. Than, returning to Zelda, right before killing him, she have a revelation and let him go.... yeah great story telling...

Neil Druckmann wanted to push his own narrative do bad he had to change the first game story and kill beloved characters just for the sake of shock.


The gameplay is an upgraded version of the part 1. It integrates a few new features like dodging and crouching and creeping (and you are still 100% available to do things while doing it). You can upgrade your character and your weapons, (as you can on the previous game). The graphics are very good and the animations are gorgeous. ¿Why i'm giving it a 2 then?... Because of the story... That fk piece of s*** caused me to hate this game and it took away all my craving for replaying it. The ending is just a part of the problem, and not the problem itself. The game tries to represent that "vengance is bad"... But let me be clear. It tries to do that by not taking revenge against someone that already took revenge... With Joel, killing him at the start of the game. Don't take me wrong, Joel had it coming from what he did on the previous game, but doing the people wait YEARS to kill the protagonist of the previous game at the start of this game... It's just a nonsense. I'm gonna talk about how this game tries to convince you of not taking revenge because vengance is bad and nothing good comes from it. Ellie does not kill the assassin of Joel, (which was Abby). But does not matter if she does or doesn't kill Abby, the plot hole is still there. How so?... Well Abby took revenge of Joel, and Ellie didn't with Abby... That means that nothing bad came from Abby's vengance, woohoo -> Plothole (since nothing bad came from vengance). Now lets think on the hypothetical situation of Ellie taking revenge on Abby and killing her... Now Abby's dead, woohoo -> Plot hole, since nothing bad came from vengance. Now lets think on the other hypothetical situation... Abby takes revenge on Joel and Ellie takes revenge on Abby... BUT, then the partner of Abby wakes up from the boat and kills Ellie, and nothing bad happens to him, woohoo -> Plot hole again, since nothing bad came from vengance. It doesn't really matter what you do, vengance it's still there and the plot hole too. What the **** they are actually trying to represent with "vengeance being bad". (Also, Ellie didn't took revenge on Abby and still lost her girlfriend by trying to do it... Oh, and two of her fingers too, preventing her from playing the guitar song that Joel teached her). Now im going to actually enumerate which contributions this game does to the "The last of Us" Universe. Ready? - Joel dies. - Tommy (Joel's brother) gets blind from an eye. - Ellie's friend Jesse dies. - Ellie's girlfriend Dina almost dies, and breaks with Ellie leaving her. - Ellie loses 2 fingers. * (An everything it's caused by Abby, the one that Ellie let go unpunished). Wow, awesome!, I can't wait to play this game again and revive all this beatiful moments!. ########################################### - This is the case in wich doesn't matter AT ALL if the game it's a 10 on gameplay, mechanics, animations, and soo... Because the story it's SO SO SO Fu***ng bad!, that now i'm completely disgusted with it and I prefer to thinkg that it got cancelled and never came out. (Now to play The last of us 1, to actually revive beatiful moments).
Fed up with the hate/review bombing. This game is great! A worthy sequel. Certainly not a 10 but certainly not a 1. Yes the story made some risky choices but I respect the hell out of that. This feels like a sequel to me. It's a tragedy story through and through. Some people cant handle that.
I loved the first one mainly for the story and characters. It is my second favorite game. The story ist very bad und what they did to the characters ist just stupid. I know what they tried but sorry they failed miserably. Beloved characters mean something for fans. That is why they stay with us years after we finish the game. I hate what they did to them. And i mean both. Ellie and Joel. And no. Joel was not the bad guy. Everyone tells me that. Because he saved Ellie. They wanted to kill a child for a chance to save themselves. When did we go to child sacrifice is ok again. Did i miss something. If the only way to save humanity ist to sacrifice children then humanity is already dead. Let us go with some dignity. Child sacrifice? Really? People are defending that?

The game-play was average. The plot was terrible. More meaning and depth could have been given to Joel death. They were too quick to push the players to be emphatic with Abby. It is clear that the gaming company chose to pander to the religion of wokeness over writing a good story but looking at the reviews of critics it seems to have paid them off. No critic dare write an unfavourable review for this game fearing that they would be eaten alive and cancelled by the acolytes of the woke religion.
Poor writing and plot holes here and there. One of the example is Joel character, at the first game he will never trust strangers, it's actually one of the very first lesson he emphasized on, always avoid strangers or be ready for an ambush if you can't avoid them. In tlou2 he actually walked into a lodge full of strangers and drops his guards completely. So out of character, and that's just one if the poor writing in this game.


что и требовалось доказать, SJW сгубили продолжение одной из лучших игр прошлого/текущего поколения консолей, сюжет и геймлей крайне скучен, персонажи все превратились в мешки с фекалиями, ну и конечно сильные независимые женщины везде, а эта сцена с Эбби, господи, чуть не сблевал


I think it’s a beautiful game with next-gen graphics, however, I didn’t feel any attachment to the characters in this game. I tried to like the game but it didn’t stick well with me. Some of the older characters doing something that they would never do in the first game rubs me the wrong way. but I could see a trend happening in the game, all the male characters are relegated to disposable characters which strike me as odd. I evaded leaks and all that BS, but now maybe I should have done that. The story was good, but unrewarding which would make you wonder why you even went for the quest in the first place. Can’t get a refund which would make anyone feeling bitter if they didn't like the game. I gave it a 4/100. I didn’t enjoy the game. It was boring. I literally almost slept in my own playthrough which is a first to me. it didn't exceed my expectations, it's just an edgy game trying to live up to its prequel. I just wished it had more depth in it with a better ending. I was playing this game with some friends who had watched the spoilers and by the end of the game they laughed at the grimace I made, I don't think I have ever cringed so hard in my entire adult life but this is the last time I buy anything on day 1. Edit:I replayed the game and I ended up getting a different experience. I think that the fact that I hasted the game made me judge it too harshly. It didn't get better, I just realized some significance of some events which I didn’t in my first playthrough. All in all I don’t look forward to any last of us 3 any time soon. Do I recommend the game? No, definitely not on this price. However I do recommend buying it if on sale.
A gameplay desse jogo está léguas de distância do primeiro. História pra mim está a mesma coisa do primeiro, banal, previsível, mas desta vez por tomar rumos que muitos fãs sensíveis não gostariam de ver,a galera está hateando o jogo desproporcionalmente, fora ainda haver certo preconceito qto a sexualidade de personagens por várias pessoas. Para quem curte gameplay esse jogo é um 10 fácil, para os que querem história com um final feliz , passa longe desta sequência é vai assistir um filme da Disney
Perfect! It's everything the first game did so well but mote of it and with new gameplay features to keep it fresh! Total emotional roller coaster start to end, especially for fans of the first game!
This game is so disappointing. The retconning of the first game, the nonsensical character decisions, the terrible character assassination, the manipulative narrative, contrived cut scenes, and unbelievable coincidences, is just an injustice to the first game. I wanted to love this game but I can't be dishonest, this was a slog and poorly written, and just continually contradicted itself. I would never want to play this again.
I guess Neil Druckmann, the guy who make this game has antisocial personality. What is this fxxk up **** Joel die in a stupid way, then when you use Ellie to revenge, next second, Bang, you need to control Abby for 10 hours and bit up Ellie. Finally, can you kill Abby? NO, Ellie decide to forget Abby. So, Ellie end up losing 2 fingers, go back to an empty house, cant even play the guitar which Joel gave her. So that mean, Abby revenge is Okay, Ellie revenge is Bad? What a SICK FXXK.
This game is a marvelous art work, it's incredibly detailed -- but what hides behind this glory, is a terribly written, generic, flat and flawed plot that not only fails this franchise's' story, but also makes the gameplay and the entire experience so bland and meaningless to go through. This game in brief throws everything that was good in the first game out of the window while deconstructing itself in the same process. Mediocre at best. Wait for sale or don't bother at all.

The first game was a masterpiece, no doubt about it, from the graphics, the gameplay, the story and characters, however, the sequel is far inferior. Poor handling of already established characters, the story relies far too much on coincidence and unrealistic situations, some of which feel forced and manipulative. The gameplay introduces a couple of new mechanics but remains essentially the same. Some of the levels do drag a bit, and without a solid story to push you through, the game becomes boring in parts. The graphics and sound are outstanding. While some of the characters might be flawed and/or unlikeable, the voice acting is great as expected considering the talent involved. Sadly, it’s not enough to make the experience a good one. Finally, the game was advertised as something completely different through deceptive advertising, false statements from the game makers, altered game footage and obvious manipulation/censoring of early reviews.
Amo el primer juego y amo esta segunda parte, bien es cierto que hay momentos un tanto tediosos, pero consigue enganchar y mantenerte en tensión. No juzguéis y disfrutarlo. La historia pese a lo que sucede es muy buena, y quien diga lo contrario es solo por rabia.
- Spoilers - Se toma el camino fácil causando shock por la muerte de Joel en una escena para nada construida. Se liga el juego a una "historia de venganza" que al final nunca ocurre. Dejan de lado el desarrollo de la trama principal del juego: un mundo post-apocaliptico y la humanidad buscando una cura. Los infectados pasan a ser enemigos de fondo en las rutas.

Amazing game with it strongest point being character growth and development overall, even though it has plotholes and inconsistencies regarding certain characters once you are through that unnecessarily sour drink you start enjoying the storytelling and its amazing gameplay, I started a bit mad when playing it due to some political agenda bits here and there and character inconsistencies as mentioned before but as I went through I enjoyed it a lot, and I ended up loving it and understanding a lot of things and how they developed, actions involving a certain character (inconsistency) made me mad and I still am, but I enjoyed it a lot regardless.
Brilliant graphic, good music, decent game play. None of the good elements can compensate for the horrendous storytelling. Think I sort of get what those self-proclaimed artists at Naughty Dog wanted to tell, but they failed, miserably.
Absolutamente incrível, apenas é um dos melhores jogos que eu já joguei em toda a minha vida, e olha que eu jogo videogame desde a época do super nintendo.
I played the vast majority of this game.I found it very difficult to play because the story was abysmal.graphics were top notch.gameplay was not expanded on.
Great gameplay; graphics blew me away; top notch animation quality, but I love the last of us for the story and this game's story falls severely short. 7/10.
DO NOT BUY THIS GAME! SAVE YOUR MONEY! I was a big fan of Naughty Dog. I finished all episode of Uncharted (except the one on PSV) and I really love the uncharted series. I also finished the last of us part 1 because I really like how Naughty Dog told story despite that I am not a fan of horror movies and games. And therefore I spent $69.99 to pre-ordered the Digital Deluxe Edition of this game. HOWEVER, this game make me doubt if I am going to buy Uncharted 5 (presuming they will make Uncharted 5). 3 Point for the good graphic, 1 point for the average game-play, 0 point for the terrible story. The story is terrible. They show no respect to the characters that the players love so much in part 1. And they show no respect to the players by forcing you to play as a character, who you will hate after witnessing what happen in the game, for over 10 hours. In the last of us part 1, even if you do not think Joel's choice is correct, you can understand why he did that. Here, it is difficult for you to understand why the characters will do such thing in the story. Their behaviors did not fit in their characters. Sometime they behaviors even conflict with their other behaviors in the same game, and there are no ground for the changes. I am very disappointed.
This is a complete spit on the face to all the fans of this beloved franchise, this game it compares to the Disney Starwars sequels and Games of Thrones season 8. I don’t why corporations like this pander to sjw audience when they don’t even bother to buy games unlike us fans that we love this games
The Last of Us 2 is one of the most dearing, gut wrenching, heart pacing stories Naughty Dog has ever created. It has a very fun and satisfying game-play loop, along with making you strategize and think on your approaches to bypass the enemies. In terms of technical and graphic fidelity, Naughty Dog continues to show the gaming industry that they are one of the best developers.
This will be looked at in history at how to ruin a fan favourite franchise, one of the worst sequels in history, makes the Star Wars prequels look like the godfather. I would love to find what the developer was smoking when he thought that story was at all good. The absolute hatred for the characters. The reason I am giving it a 0 is because I wish this trash game didn’t exist, legit just play the first game and pretend this pile of **** didn’t exist, that’s why It deserves a 0
First off let me say the game Play was awesome, The graphics, control, and UI/crafting was far better then the first game. I would have love to give it a 10, but the story was just God awful. 1. Not as open world as it said, The world was plenty big enough...but in one direction really. If you went through the wrong door or dropped down at the wrong time you couldn't go back...so many times I didn't save I missed out on safes, and other loot because of this fact. You should be able to back track if needed. 2. if you stealth killed an enemy, the others wouldn't know, but if you killed one away from the others with a punch or knife all the others would be alerted. Also some of the clickers would see you a lot of the times if you were in sight duck down and being quiet. 3. Killing off your main protagonist was a very dumb move. Sure he did some awful things but they all did even Abby, And Abby had years to find out why it happen and cool down. Ellie's rage was warranted Abby's was not. Also taking two of Ellie's fingers was just dumb. I hope they can save this game with the the third one. Naughty Dog really miss the mark on the story big time. Game play awesome, story not so much. I Think Naughty Dog forgot what maid The Last of Us one so big....Both Joel & Ellie.
Game built on lies terrible storyline after waiting 7 years after the 1st brilliant game to take out Joel that way was shocking but to make u play 12 hours of the game as his killer was the worst thing they could do
NOT WORTH YOUR MONEY 40 hr of pure trash Its basically a movie so if you want 10 hr of game play and 30 of cut scenes Not even worth the YouTube story compilation
Bruh i didnt sign up for transexual porn stop pushing agendas you west coast entitled freaks trans women like looking like women this is just an insukt down by a bunch of racist liberal white asses
Del súper nabo!!! A mi punto de vista jodieron por completo la historia, me arrepiento de comprarlo.. Todo por hacer caso al “must play” ” de metacritic...
We haven't had such a gaming experience here yet! Absolutely brilliant game. Overall, the game looks like one huge work of art. It would be hard to find a mistake in the game. Amazing ..
Played it out a hour ago, for me its the best game of the generation. I get the story twists may not be for everyone but i loved it. I like how you care about characters that u should hate, i like the combat and the gphx are crazy for a ps4.
I waited for nearly 5 years for this game, I loved the first one. And when I say by the time I finished the game I wanted to rip my finger nails out, I mean it. The story is completely redundant in it's morals, The new character and antagonist Abby does not have good or valid character building and I don't like how the producers expect us to like her and take her side. There was a story we didn't necessarily didn't get to see with Joel and Ellie, y'know that we kinda built since the first game to just have it torn away and be something we'll never have. Most character death's besides a really big one and someone else just don't feel emotional at all. What the hell Naughtydog? I want my money back!
Last of us 2 is a perfect example of a product when the main and only goal is to make a point rather than a product. This wouldn't be a bad thing if the writing could make a point in a way that has weight or makes sense. Last of us was always about characters and story and so I will score this one based off of those criteria, which is why it gets a hard 0
Lacrador e Patético. Nunca pensei que esse era Possível cagar em um Jogo tão Hypado! Pena que eu estava errado
It's bad enough that as a mature male adult I have no playable characters to draw me into this game, and not allowing me to easily skip through the horrendously boring Teenage lesbian woke scenes is simply unforgivable.
It's not hard to subvert expectations, it was done with The Last Jedi to ill effect. If a game can be a 10 out of 10 and not perfect, then by the same logic it can be a 0. Characters from the second half of the game were very unlikeable and I could not bring myself to empathise with them no matter how hard I tried. This was due to poor pacing and execution of story elements (Joel's death) early on in the game. Naughty dog decided to take a massive dump on beloved characters, trying really hard to make them unlikeable. This is especially true of Ellie. Pandering and pushing an agenda in a post apocalyptic world was another draw back which I will not get into because it has become a very exhausting issue in recent years. The fans wanted one thing and the Studio another.
Esse jogo é Horrível e violento e tenso e intenso e maravilhoso e real, bonito, feio, aterrorizante e encantador, real, humano e EXCELENTE! Mas com um final meio ruim, mas n merece todo esse Hate, é sim um jogo incrivel só pelas horas de Gameplay e a tensão adicionada ao enfrentar infectados já me agradam!

this is a must play?/?are you serious?ugh the only thing that is good about this is graphics!if you looking for a great story or you thought lou1 was great then pass this buy it;s a dud
As someone who did not enjoy the core gameplay loop in the first game at all, finding it outmoded and clunky compared to other titles, it was the story that kept me invested and pushed me through the poor gameplay to see it through to its conclusion. And it was worth it for me. In this game? Not so much. The mechanics have changed little since the original title, which is a shame, because that long development time would have been ideal to just tighten up the controls enough to make combat and exploration a little more responsive and enjoyable. This is doubly disappointing as the story makes some very decisive and decidedly poor choices when it comes to pacing and character development, throwing out the foibles and virtues of existing characters, and instead repackaging them as clean blank slates to both serve the narrative direction and give plot armour to newer and less interesting characters. The mid and latter stages of the game felt more like 'going through the motions' so we can advance the petty revenge story, rather than watching loved characters - both old and new - grow in meaningful ways. I expect this kind of pacing and plot progression in open world RPGs where side quests and grinding are expected and even encouraged, but not in a linear and story-driven action-horror title. I followed this game through to it's conclusion, but honestly? I wish I hadn't. That said, if you are not motivated by story or writing or character progression and come for the gameplay (power to you), then you'll find a gorgeous world filled with fun little details, immersive ambient sound and lighting and some fairly pretty (albeit dark due to an over-reliance on interior levels) environments which show off the game engine and PS4 hardware in a way which would have some PC owners sweating a little. For me though, this isn't enough. I can never justify style over substance, and have returned the game for a full refund out of principle. I have only ever been disappointed enough to do this once before, and is not something I take pleasure in doing. I like to support art and artists, and I will never tell you to not spend your money, but all things considered, I would strongly advise not paying full price. Maybe catch this in a sale or on the pre-owned shelf at your local game store of choice.
My experience playing this game starts out very strong and during the first 15 hours or so I thought for sure I was going to play a New Game+ right after finishing it. Unfortunately the performance drops off substantially after about the halfway mark. Ironically the Story is the weakest point of the game. It starts out compelling enough but the decline is steep and steady right until the ending which is criminally unsatisfying. I don´t care about any of the new characters and none of them even come close to Joel and Ellie from the first part. The game looks amazing and the gameplay is actually very fun. I enjoyed exploring the vast areas of the game, collecting resources, crafting and modding my weapons. The changes to the combat system are minor but sensible. The battles are tense, action packed and brutal. The Last of Us Part II is not a bad game. I enjoyed playing it and even though the story, the supposed heart and soul of the game, was a sad caricature of the original, I still finished it within a few days and couldn´t lay off the controller. So I can´t honestly rate this game too badly. If you´re new to the series or don´t really care about it you´re going to have a good time with it, just wait until it´s on sale. But if you´re like me and you love the first game, Part II will leave you with an overwhelming feeling of disappointment. I don´t think I will ever replay this game.
I came into this game know full well the controversy following it, what with the leaks and all. I was always going to play this game regardless of reviews, cause normally I don't pay them much attention. Alas, here we are and I'm leaving a review.... oh how the mighty have fallen...ANYWAYS lets get into the game. coming off of what was maybe Naughty Dog's most successful endeavor (aside from uncharted I guess). I came into TLOU2 with high hopes that were deflated partially due to what I found out in the leaks however, I wasn't going to let that stop me from still experiencing it first hand. If I was going to be disappointed I wanted to be absolutely sure. As I played thru the first few hours I enjoyed the gameplay, the graphics, the beautiful scenery, hell I even enjoyed picking up the collectible cards that had super heroes on them. The accessibility options for the game are top notch. But this damn story!!?!? just all over the place. Ellie is demonized while were forced to try and empathize with Abby, who is no saint whatsoever by the way. actually her arc is already finished within the first few hours of the game! she gets exactly what she wants in a most convenient fashion. and just when you think you get to exact your revenge.... We are treated to 12+ more hours of why we should all respect this other character and demonize Ellie for......well for essentially killing a dog, in which we had no choice cause it was literally self defense, and well... there wasn't any other choice. skipping to the ending where as I played I felt like I had about 3 false endings... Ellie still cant cope and HAS to exact revenge...........but nahhhhhhhhh. just as you feel like, here it comes, here is the revenge literally EVERYONE is waiting for.......flop, she allows Abby to sail off into the mist while she gets to return to NOTHING! (and a few less fingers). and thats it. she cant even play her guitar anymore so she just leaves it and walks off to hell who knows after that butchered story most likely walk herself into a room full of clickers......Garbage Storytelling! and no... i'm not a close minded bigot of any sort. My problems don't have anything to do with the inclusion of LGBTQ characters. it's the **** job they did trying to justify half of the characters who were just as bad if not worse than Joel, Ellie, or Tommy. they spent so much time trying to make Abby likable and at no point does that ever resonate. i found myself wanting to know more of the seraphites and the prophet more than anyone else in the game. yet their abandoned and just labeled as crazy bigots.
Only buy this game if you want solid gameplay and ambientation, don't buy it for the story because it total garbage. I'm returning this game tomorrow. The platinum is easy but it's a pain having to play as abby for 25 hours total 1,3 playthroughs).
Big fan of the original. The story here is very poor I'm afraid, and seems to take delight in substituting character development with regressive politics. Avoid
Visuals and gameplay are entertaining enough but as most will say the story is just a big screw you to the player. We go through all that revenge plot to be scolded and told "NO, violence is bad mmmkay"
В игре хороша только графика, всё остальное хлам, бесполезный стелс, бесполезные прокачки оружия, опять игра про записки. Серия закопана разработчиком каждым решением сделать что-то в игре.
Excelente en todos los aspectos, música, gráficos he historia. Obra maestra de naughty dog nuevamente, lastima que esté sufriendo de review bombing por los hater de Xbox, PC Y NINTENDO porque no puedan disfrutar de un juego así. Una lástima que se lo pierdan
Controls seem to lag although that might be because I'm playing in 4k It's not true to the original and there's large plot holes and the graphics are downgraded from the trailers they might as well have just made a different game since most characters look so different than the first part,.
Shooting feels clunky and the game have long stretches of boring talkin add cutscenes to the mix that shortens the gameplay notably,story wise is another pretentious hipster trash,graphics are beautiful like most interactive movies ,the game is not for everybody if you are a fan of the series you might break your controller.there are pregnant women climbin on fenses while other is smokin weed while pregnant,a character comesbak to live after being shot in the head (tommy)trees that take 20 years to grow are on the street and there havnt been not even 15 years
Absolutely the best game I've ever played. I'm not a gamer really, just loved the first game as a story. Playing The Last Of Us Part II was such a roller coaster of emotions for me. Stunning graphics, improved game-play mechanics. Great plot, storytelling and dialog. Facial animations are the best the industry has ever seen. Incredible achievement of the developers.
+ graphics, some really beatiful moments and twists + Joel playing Guitar - gameplay is still same maybe even worse then previous game nothing special , AI is still terrible - story - unlikable characters - characters behave like idiots because of plot - ending
Jogabilidade 10/10 Gráficos 8/10 História 3/10 por causa da temática LGBT, morte ridícula de joel e ataques religiosos e piadinhas sobre preconceitos. Média 2.1 mas vou dar um 0


Joel no debía morir, vine a hacer mi descargo. Muy mala decisión eso empaña TODO lo bueno , en que estaban pensando? Y además de forzar el lesbianismo, que terrible que sean hipócritas y se unan a la moda, que sigue? Apoyar la pedofilia? La necrofilia?
Why do we need to play with Female Brock Lesnar ffs. Hated every bit of her and couldn't stand it. And the ending is probably one of the worst video game endings ever, if it was a normal game it would be a solid 7/10. Graphics are 10/10 but ffs it's Last of us they ruined it completely.
Graphic 10/10 Gameplay 7/10 Story 1/10 - That makes total 6 out of 10 If people didn’t get to play the first game, then this game’s story wouldn’t feel too horrible since you won’t have a reference point or any emotional connection to the lead characters. It’s such a tremendous let-down because the first game set such a high bar story-telling wise. The first game conveniently used McCarthy’s The Road as an “inspiration”, this game’s original story ends up ironically exposing how inadequate Neil Druckmann actually is as a story-teller. There are plenty of argument out there already discussing why the story is bad so I won’t dive into details but let me point to the obvious one here - how do you expect the audience to care about the characters in the 2nd half when you already *spoiler* all of them in the first? To be perfectly clear, I’ve got nothing against *spoiler* getting killed. The critical flaw lies in the story’s structure itself - when you can’t connect to the characters and the audience stopped caring, the 2nd half of the game felt so long and patronizing. Every single plot point felt so contrived and worked too hard seemingly trying to “influence” the choices you have no power to make in the first place. An easy fix would be giving this game multiple endings based on the moral choices you had to make, which shouldn’t be too hard, I’ll be happy to take just two endings - to kill or not to kill. Instead, Neil Druckmann made those moral choices for you - preaches down to your neck be precise forcing you to have emotional connection with characters that you already know will be *spoiler*. That’s precisely why at the end of the game you got this bad tastes in your mouth and felt nothing even remotely close to that cathartic release from the first game. I’ll leave it at a Joel quote in the game; ‘See there was a sequel. It wasn’t as good.’
Es un videojuego increíble Tanto la narrativa o la jugabilidad y el apartado técnico es abrumador , los gráficos y las animaciones impresionan mucho y la banda sonora y el diseño de los niveles están a otro nivel , los npc se portan mejor que nunca y la inteligencia artificial apunta muy alto , el sigilo me encanta , para mi es el mejor juego de la generación y el mejor gráficamente felicito a naughty dog por las decisiones que han tomado y por la valentía para hacer ese tipo de juego y por el trabajo que han hecho Bravo !!
.WARNING: This is not an exaggeration, everything bad you heard about this game is true and it gets even worse from there. This game is an absolute disgrace. The story is a complete and utter joke, somehow naughty dog, impressively, managed to undo everything good they did in the first game. The story is shockingly and unspeakably bad. Naughty Dog just tries so hard to distract people from how bad this story is by including disturbing scenes and disgusting sexually explicit scenes, basically products of Neil Druckmann's sick and weird fantasies. Graphics aren't even that great either especially when you compare it to some of Sony's exclusives that came before this pile of junk. Gameplay is typical overrated naughty dog clunky crap. Seriously I can go on and on and on about how bad this game is but my advice is if you want actually good game graphics and good stories and good game play then there are plenty of other games that are worth your money such as God of War, Horizon Zero Dawn and even Days Gone. Do not waste your hard earned money on this game because the only thing you will get from it is regrets

It's trash, story is horrible, gameplay is like a boring stealth game. Do not buy.Only the graphics are good.
A love a good revenge story, this one however feels very loose and brings in a bunch of unlikeable characters. What made TLOU so likeable is the story and bond between Joel and Ellie. It's a story that only Ellie could have had in the world. This story practically takes a **** on the original story. Gameplay is good for what it is, jump button is stupid. May as well just add in a ledge based system that makes it so the character will automatically jump. Animations are of superb quality. Graphics are amazing. I've not finished it yet. But it feels like a chore doing so. But this game isn't meant to be fun, it's the message it sends
Where do I even begin...well this game is visually amazing they made it more open then the first game which is good don't get me wrong but the story it self was horrible...I wasn't happy how they lead Joel to his untimely end or how Ellie made her choice in the end I get they try to focus on revenge in this game by playing this new character but...I feel they could of done it better if that was the case I just hope the 3rd one if they do make one is waaay better then this one looks like I'm going to lose that 20 and sell my copy on offer up and save another smuck from making the same mistake that made
This game totally worked for me. The story is exciting and just adding the dodging and crawl mechanics were enough to change the gameplay completely and make it very exciting and immersive. I love the last of us 1 and the second one was just as good if not better! It’s a gut-wrenching story but pretty great once you get over “yunno”.
Graphics are awesome but as a narrative game it failed in everyway and gameplay wlkese all characters feel the same and plays the same as the first one, except 1 or 2 new gimmiks... It feels like a gamble the devs took and they lost.
I just don't like Neil Druckmann and how he thinks that he is so much better than anyone else because of his new-found ideology. He needs to grow up and realize that boasting about being 'woke' is an immature thing to do. Also after hearing about how the people working at Naughty Dog were treated I had to do my part in giving Naughty Dog what they deserved.
Gameplay Is so Good But Stories is really bad...that's Awful and ending is so bad I can't believe that after Years,I am very sad that my favorite game was ruined
It had an excellent Beginning and middle a 9.5 out of 10. It was all great until the end of the theater scene where Abby beats down Ellie. This is the reason I dropped the score to a 7. Ellie lost Joel but she had it made on that Farm. She still had Dina, the baby, and Tommy! Ellies number 1 priority should have been the baby and Dina. Ellie decides to go after Abby, but Abby let Ellie go on 2 different occasions. I think Ellie should have let it go and enjoyed her life with Dina, and the baby. I noticed there was so much hate for Abby, but I feel like Abby is a much better person than Ellie. After months of Ellie searching she finally finds Abby who’s already been tortured for weeks. Ellie decides not to kill Abby at the end. I just think the story took a turn for the worst in the last chunk of this game. The game play was superb and I loved the variety of weapons. The graphics are some of the best I’ve ever seen. The cons out weight the pros, that's why I give it a 7.

what a pathetic game, killing Joel in first 2 hours, by that thing/abby, he saved that thing/abby's life multiple times and it kills Joel with a golf club, the critics are bought, liars.
Not even one kind word in that last flashback sequence... lol, you tolerance nazis really lost your minds in the last 4-5 years. Try to write a universally loved comedy that will make everyone happy Neil... show how inclusive you are. It's probably too challenging for a toxic narrow mind, and also not what your handlers asked you... no talent ;)
Six years of waiting and we've got THIS... Naughty Dog screwed up. Although the game has an outstanding graphic and more or less engaging gameplay (which still becomes a bit tiring after 20+ hours), writing and story in general are so weak and that's destroys everything. Moreover, Abby makes almost the half of the game absolutely meaningless. I wonder whose idea was that (Mr. Druckman perhaps), that's a total fail.


I give this a 8.75/10 I think the story is awesome and amazing.Even when you play as Ellie's nemesis.i will recomend this game to people.people is upset because what happen but that what makes into a amazing story.The first one is still my favorite one but part 2 is still good.
The game deviates from the very essence of the first game. What they have made to the character is unacceptable. Plot is very weakly written and its only made to support their agenda. Only positives in this game is the gameplay elements and graphics which gives the glimpse of next-gen. Naughty Dog needs a redeem themselves l.
I'm really disappointed with the game. been ND fan for years and this game disrespect the fans. not only changing the story but false trailers with Joel and Ellie.
Decent gameplay and fantastic visuals along with the phenomenal voice acting can't make up for the horrible story. Hate abby with a passion despite ND trying to make her likeable. Murdering Joel the n that way in the beginning of the game makes it impossible to like her.
The first game was my favourite game of all time so I didnt expect the sequel to improve that but boy I was wrong it's an absolute masterpiece that has completely blown me away. They sumhow managed to improve every aspect of the first and its surprising a game can look so good on a ps4
Прошёл за 2-а захода по 8 и 15+ часов на сложном, сейчас прохожу на платину без подсказок из инета. Геймплей: Боёвка - Понравилось добавление лайк Солус механики в плане тайминга уворотов. Не понравилось вытекая из этого же, упрощение геймплея. Пропала хардкорность и страх перед мобами. Теперь умереть в основном можно только от большого кол-ва врагов или нелепости. Лутание, квесты и пространство: Стало всего больше, но распределено местами не пропорционально, из-за этого в некоторых местах хочется подзевнуть. В 1-ой части всё было компактнее и следовательно интенсивнее, скорее всего из-за ограниченности PS3. 8 из 10 Визуал + звук: Уровень художников и проработка мелочей зашкаливает, особенно поразили тени и свет... на PS4 такое... Лицевые анимации лучшие в игровой индустрии. На PS4 slim фпс в некоторых местах проседает до 10-15, но в основном стабильные 30. Звук также потрясающий, стерео на максималках. Жалко что только гитару на 3-ей план разместили... 10 из 10 Сюжет: Ощущение, что писали нейросети)) Как вызвать максимальную драму? Убить любимого персонажа. Как придать мотивацию ГГ убивать и двигаться вперёд? Заставить мстить. Какая модная повестка в геймдеве? Борьба за права меньшинств. В 1-ой части был мощный понятный всем твист, ради которого вся игра и строилась. В данной части твисты заключаются в понимании мотивации персонажей... думаю большинство их даже не заметят))) Вообщем сюжет не для всех, который скорее всего и был создан для разделения аудитории. 6 из 10. Итого моя общая оценка игры: 8+10+6/3 8 из 10
An absolute character assassination. The decisions Ellie, Joel and Tommy make completely out of character just for that sake of driving this petty plot forward. Though the graphics, acting and overall detail on this game are the best there is, gameplay feels the same as it's predecessor that came out 7 years ago.
Highly amazing game in terms of visuals only. Combat is pretty decent but mainly follows the originals which isnt broken. The story is where it falls flat for me. Very poor writing and terrible pacing. Narratives and plot points aside it was just a very underwhelming game. 6/10
What an emotional rollercoaster ride. The story perfectly displays raw emotion in it's most primal form. The characters were all stellar. If you were expecting a happy ending, you haven't been paying attention.
A história e principalmente o desfecho de TLOU2 são como um coito interrompido.... é vazio.... É sem propósito.... Toda a jornada desde o primeiro foi em vão. Matar centenas de pessoas durante a jornada "gratuitamente" pra chegar no ápice e no momento onde os motivos são mais gritantes acontece aquela desgraça... Minha analógia desse jogo é que ele é como um solo de guitarra ruim: Ficaram fritando frases barrocas, clichês e extremamente forçadas, porém não encontraram a nota de repouso ideal, que traz harmonia, equilíbrio e paz... Soa desafinado, incompleto e ruim para os ouvidos mais aguçados. Naughty dog mijou em nós e disse que é chuva... Infelizmente pra muitos essa pecha cola.... Lamentável.
Tecnicamente impresionante Jugabilidad mejorada sobre el anterior TLOUS Narrativa podría ser menos cortada Tiempo de juego tiene algunos rellenos innecesarios pero se aprecian los detalles del mundo El guión es polémico y muy personal. Se debería jugar para no sacar conclusiones nada objetivas. En resumen es un buen juego
i still prefer play first game! i mean, what's the point of best gameplay and gunplay and graphics when the story sucks af..... they just wanted to milk the story for 3rd part and put their politic identity into your mind!!! so be careful... this is not about the story anymore this whole game is just a politic propaganda

Looks great, but game play mechanics aren't the best they could have been, sounds are great, clickers are still scary to hear and not see. Story is where it falls flat, both new and old characters are just terribly written, and i found myself not caring for any of them in the end. Really lost interest in this series, most likely wont get the next.
This game is marred by tons of controversy throughout its development. The critic reviews are a complete joke to me. One reviewer even said “I’m not even sure that I liked this game” then proceeded to give it a 10/10. That sums up this whole disaster. The game is a “visual masterpiece” but that’s as far as the masterpiece goes. The game play adds nothing to the formula from the first game except a jump button that is only used a handful (if that) of times in the game. I enjoyed the first game despite it's game play, not because of it. That was due to the compelling story and incredible writing and character building. The Last of Us 2 completely ignores the characters built in the first game. It also makes the story in the first game completely irrelevant. Characters behave out of character. One of the major story points that happens within the first couple hours only happens because a character does something this character would NEVER do as established in the first game. It’s an utter disgrace and ruins the character. Sadly this is the sole driving force of the entire game. Not only is the plot point created by this event the main focus of the game and story but it is also repeated twice. It’s the most basic thing I’ve ever seen and to make matters worse it is written very poorly. It’s bad enough to run with a ridiculous concept but I’d you are going to you better darn well get the writing and characters right. This game does neither. The characters are boring and not compelling and the writing is that of something I would have written before I got into middle school. The “poignant” moment at the very end was just laughable. I mean literally. I laughed out loud. If you like this game then good for you. I’m not faulting anyone’s opinion. My as for me I say shame on Naughty Dog For releasing this garbage. By the way none of my review has anything to do with politics, ethics, wholeness etc... although all that trash is in the game too and would stop my score even more.
This game could have been and should have been the best game of all time... everything about it is amazing, it is the best you will find with graphics, gameplay, sound Voice acting and cinematography... but they dropped the ball with the direction of the story and the SJW agenda. They totally ruined the franchise in my opinion... there is no way anyone can convince me that Joel was a bad guy and that what he did at the end of the first game wasn’t justified... it’s a damn shame... Graphics - 10/10 Gameplay - 10/10 Sound - 10/10 Story - 3/10 SJW Liberal agenda - 0/10
The gameplay is the same thing as the first game, no innovation, the jump feature is worthless, what the game forces you to see and play is beyond reason, is sad how bad the story is, it seems naughty dog had an agenda to destroy what everybody loved of the first game. But I must say the technology used is amazing, acting is awesome, dialog and everything that involves the cinematic, I can't even imagine what could have they accomplish if they had a good story, no plot holes, 7 years for this. Is just sad.
Gameplay and visual is absolutely stunning and deserve some props but man the story is trash, they tried to be "realistic" and "edgy", there is no bond in characters in this sequel even with the main one from the previous game
Great graphics and mechanics. Very poor plot and New characters, and incredible disapoint story. When The game shows The flashback scenes, that IS The essence of The LAST OF US. The other entire part of The game... IS GARBAGE!!!!!!
Neil Druckmann destroyed this game ,the story is very bad , where is the jewel of first part ? why incluyed his progres politics? I'm feel very sad for this videogame. It could have been a masterpiece, but it was destroyed.
After just finishing The Last of Us I will keep this as spoiler friendly as possible. The Last of Us 2 at times with it’s graphical presentation and ultra smooth control can be awe inspiring. The attention to detail that was so evident with the first returns in some of it’s sprawling environments. Naughty Dog should be commended for that. Character models are top notch and the sound is the type of quality you expect from Naugthy Dog. Where the game falters is in its story telling, pacing and the overall direction of its character development. There is not one like able character to be had in this story. Everyone even the main character of Ellie is portrayed as being wholly monsters and for some of the previous characters who were established and beloved in part one they make choices that are counter to everything we know them to be. Many choices taken by them serve to only push the next plot point forward regardless if its something they actually would have done which is a huge no-no when it comes to writing well thought out character development. Quite Frankly the handling of the legacy characters of this franchise leaves much to be desired and thats my main take away. The last of Us 2 leaves a lasting feeling of leaving to much to be desired, things you felt never should have happened to or with the majority of its cast. Where as the first game had little rays of hope and light in this game there exist none. Its one bleak depressing slog from start to finish. Playing as the games new co protagonist Abby was one of my personal worst experiences in gaming after some of the egregious acts she partakes in. The continued forcing to switch to her really hurt my overall gaming experience. I simply did not like this character for her actions and there was nothing that could make me like her after what she does. She came across as the games clear cut villain and it was never going to go over well with the majority of gamers to be forced to play with her in this game. She will go down as one of the most polarizing hated characters in gaming history. Overall The Last of Us 2 outstanding presentation, accessibility, and character design can not make up for such a poorly executed story. I wanted to love this game as much as I did the first but I just generally had one of the worst game experiences of my gaming lifetime.
It's hard to give this game a fair shake due to all the controversy, from the leaks to behavior of Sony and Naughty Dog to the blatant lying and spread of misinformation by the access media. Even some misleading information from the official trailers. That said, let's give it a shot. Story, not a fan, there are so many problems here, let's begin. The players that don't make it past Joel's death cannot be blamed for that, nor should they be blamed for making their reviews solely on that event alone. The set up abandoned all of Joel's character building from the first, it was disrespectful to his character and ultimately, has no payoff by the end of the game. This is the first event that literally persuades the player from not continuing the game, and it's a big one. Next, Abby. Her character design is particularly strange. There's absolutely nothing that makes you like her and empathize with her. I hate to say she's agenda driven, but that's the only thing that seems to make sense in her design. To put it as simple as possible, she was created to kill Joel. Why anyone would expect you to like and empathize with her after that is ludicrous. She is the antagonist, plain and simple. We hate her. So she let's Ellie survive and you spend half the game trying to get close to her again. Could feel like the whole game for some people, and this is where you meet your next big scenario that makes you want to stop playing the game for good. You finally end up in a scenario with Abby, you expect some big fight is going to happen, it's an intense moment, you don't know what's gonna happen because you don't have the upper hand and what happens??? It fades to black and suddenly your playing Abby's backstory and your first thought it WHAT THE EFF?? Second thought is, I DON'T CARE. Then you are overcome with the desire to simply quit playing. So you somehow go through all that, you get to the end of the game hoping something will make it worth it and then comes the final slap in the face. Ellie loves playing the guitar, it's her thing, it was in her trailers and marketing and had a few special moments throughout the game. Then what happens? You fight with Abby, she effing bites your fingers off and despite her killing Joel, and all the killing Ellie had to do to even get here, she let's Abby go. What was even the point of it all? WHAT WAS THE POINT!? Where's the payoff to killing Joel early in the story? Why make you play as Abby? She was irredeemable for anyone invested in these characters and franchise. Okay, Joel killer her father, but why did he do it? Self-defense? To protect Ellie??? Here we have a game about revenge that begins with Abby taking hers and then Ellie is like naw???? Tell me how this makes sense? Worst of all is the final salt in your wounds when Ellie can no longer play her guitar. Atmosphere and graphics are perfectly set and gorgeous. Anyone saying this isn't one of the best looking games on PS4 would be disingenuous. The graphics don't save the game by any means, but they certainly bring the score up and that's about all I have to say on that. Gameplay? I mean you're forced to kill a dog. That really sucks. Game loves making you do things and then feel bad for them. Plays better than it's predecessor but still gets repetitious and somewhat boring. Especially the latter half of the game because if you're still motivated to play at that point, all you want to do is get to the end. This game was a massive disappointment primarily due to the story decisions. The story is objectively bad and it makes you feel bad for playing through it. The only thing I am personally thankful for is that I am not invested in these characters like so many others. With that said, I am still heartbroken for Joel and Ellie. In closing, I'll say that while this game may sell well, the fans will not support a third entry. The bridge is burning and there's nothing that can be done to save it.
Terminei a alguns dias ... Realmente é magnífico...essa franquia me trouxe emoções nunca sentidas em um game anteriormente No primeiro jogo quando entrei na sala de cirurgia controlando Joel ...eu entrei com Raiva e com vontade de matar aqueles médicos ...mesmo que aparentemente eu podeira deixá-los vivos em um primeiro momento eu não pensei duas vezes matei eles ..como se tivesse realmente salvando a Ellie ....essa sensação nunca tinha sentido jogando algo ...na parte dois quando descobri que a Abby era filha do médico ...falei putz ..e quando percebi que eu iria controlar ela ...e conhecer a história dela ...eu pensei vai dar merda .....cara que montanha russa (esses caras da naugthy dogs são uns FDP) nunca ninguém fez nada parecido. Por fim que jogo amigos !!

Ridiculous title! Once one of my favorite developers became one of my most hated devs. Plot holes, No consistency, extremely disrespectful to the fan base, game characters and overall gamers intelligence. Avoid at all costs! No matter what, I will not support ND ever again. ND is gone.
At least some of the critic reviews were honest about how bad the writing in this game is. The rest of them are just giving into the BS that Naughty Dog put out in statements before the game was released. The studio lied to fans for months saying that the leaks weren't true and that the story would honor Joel and Ellie. Funny, I didn't realize that honoring Joel meant completely changing everything about his character in the first hour of the game by having him and Tommy talk to complete strangers about where they were living, offering supplies and saying who they were without hesitation. Fans deserved better than this. So thanks Naughty Dog for not only "Honoring Joel and Ellie" but the fans as well with this ridiculous story. It could have been so much more and now you've lost the respect of nearly all of your fan base.
The thing is the game is gorgeous, great features, and fun gameplay. The other thing is, being a writer myself; I understand making a story of everything in between grief, love, and an unpredictable world that we live in. That doesn’t mean it’s fun when your characters brains are literally butchered by choices and mistakes that they would/wouldn’t have made otherwise. The thing is I’d love this if it were presented as a complex indie film (MAYBE). But it’s a game that one would spend HUNDREDS of hours on to escape, learn, and have fun. Not hundreds of hours playing as people the users have no respect for, have hatred towards, with an ending that contradicts themes and choices. It’s a game that makes you think but maybe too hard with no payoff. It’s like life but I want entertainment. I’m just bored and angry. Which I already was during a pandemic. Soooo Thanx for nothing.
The game repeats the way of playing The first game, it would be a ressue of the first game with a horrible Story, with the exception of the graph the story leaves a feeling of doing everything for nothing, really Weak!

The best game ever, nothing can compare to this game, I hope they make it part 3 on PS5
Phenomenal graphics and animation. However, the game is ruined by the horrible choice to tell a story of a petty revenge plot. I hate this story. I wish naughty dog did it 180* different. Thank you
fantastic game, ruined a bit by the ending in which you don't have all the answers you are looking for, and by all those hours played with Abby. otherwise perfect!
As a fan of the first game, I'm sad to say that this game is a terrible sequel, while the graphics were amazing and world design is very well put together, the story couldn't keep me engaged and the characters felt like needless props half the time, to put it in the simplest of terms this whole game is like throwing 2,500$ rims(graphics and world design)on a piece of crap car(story and character development) it stands out sure but if its intended purpose fails to meet its expectations then it's worth nothing at all, I would not recommend this game to anyone who's a fan of the first game or anyone looking for a engaging story, but I will recommend it to ppl looking for a game that will put them to sleep
After waiting 7 years I need to say ... Graphics are good , enemy AI in my opinion dumber that in the first part ... In this age we have a lot of games with good graphics... This is just not good enough ... The story is superficial, forced to promote real life ideology... This should be entertaining and rewarding experience...the strong part of the first episode was the story . That is gone ,poor writing,akward interactions between protagonists. I have serious doubts to invest again in naughty dog ....if I want political agendas pushed down on my throat I turn on my TV news ... Not my gaming unit ....
Not matter what u read , seen or heard, nothing compares to playing the game from the start till the end. Amout of detailing in every aspect of this game is mind blowing! Playing with a open mind is a must while playing this game! True masterpiece
Not the worst game ever. Genuinely. But if you a fan of the first game and primarily its characters, this one does them dirty. Seriously at some points to where you wonder if its the same person. And ultimately a game that has you murder hundreds of people to avenge a friend decides at the last moment that killing is bad. Which is at odds with the entire game of murder. And that results in a very unfulfilled felling by the end.
Gets one point for technical proficiency and one for polish. The rest is worthless. The gameplay is the same rudimentary stealth back-stab-athon you played in 2013 with a handful of superficial new mechanics (dodge! jump!) tacked on. The world is detailed, but drab, a consequence of the setting, sure, but still tedious. The new characters are unlikeable, if not immediately hateful, and the old characters are changed for the worse and abused to no good purpose. The story pretends moral depth and substance, but is only crude, cruel, and self-contradicting. Skip this game. Play anything else. You'll be a better, happier person for it.
Do not be fooled by the paid-off journalist "critics". This game is a disappointment in every sense of the word. The gameplay is generic without any innovation. The same old stealth and shooting mechanics that we've seen in countless other titles. The story is a mess that feels like it was written by an edgy teenager. The dialogue tries too hard to come off as profound but ends up just feeling lackluster. All this game really has going for it are the visuals. I will definitely not be buying other games made by Naughty Dog after this travesty.

like a big fan of the first game and from the uncharted saga I feel very hurt for how the new release bash everything .naughty dog they have no respect to the fanbase, to the youtubers who gave their humble opinion.that they have all the right for the freedom of speech. which they demonized blocked and abused their DMCA power as a company.but above all to the characters that are not themselves are an empty shell of their previous. how to continue a sequel when you didn't need the last of us 2 .is a simple revange game that is graphically spectacular but its empty shell. The good photo realistic models of characters the diversity and density of the scenery The levels of detailed as we will remember in uncharted 4 the light . the water . the sky boxes the bad the massive plot holes The extremely brutality violence Neil Druckmann's wet dream male to male / female face intercourse the nonsense ending that in the entire campaign you are waiting for at last to get revenge and you do not do it despite the fact that he slaughters joel with a golf club. shoots tommy in the head and leaves him crippled forever .he breaks both elies arms he or she beats the **** out of dinas without any remorse and almost cuts his throat off .bite elie's fingers off and the end ist no problem goodbye. lets him escape that's the end all for nothing Remember the talks with elie when we met the giraffes when we were hanging upside down and our little girl saved our lives on more than one occasion when she takes care of us he like joel loses a daughter but he finds and adopts elie the beautiful ending and the unexpected twist that's why the last of ous 1 was incredible a masterpiece not because elie was gay Because the incredibly realistic and well flesh out characters that seemed human an incredible story telling

A pesar de lo dolorosa que pueda ser la historia, The Last of Us Parte II, es un juego que marcará el final de PS4. Este juego siempre ha sido duro, su primera parte, aún presentándonos
came back to this game after playing the first part expecting the best experience..then guess what SJW's conquer every space that i retreat to.. kills our games hero (male in general + white person + being straight is a SIN) write a complete joke story and push an agenda down our throat.. I wish people will voice their opinion and make games what they used to be.. THIS GAME WAS A WASTE MONEY AND TIME FOR ME.. GIVE 1 JUST FOR THE GRAPHICS QUALITY
It takes a bad game to get a low score. It takes a downright insulting game to get a 0. I feel like there are two groups of people which leads to ultimately why the game is so divisive. One, a group of people who are wise enough to rise above the written-in blatant emotional manipulation and doesn't fall for cheap emotional tricks, and therefore cannot connect to the story whatsoever and ends up hating it. Which is absolutely **** disastrous to the script, the script completely blows up and fails hard if you don't empathize or give two **** about abs, which the game tries very hard to get you to do in obnoxious ways. Lots of blatant guilt tripping which is eye-rollingly opaque. Two, people who DO fall for the cheap emotional tricks as the director intended, and the script actually DOES work as intended so they think the game is deep and has the impact on them that was intended. If I didn't feel like this game was constantly insulting my emotional intelligence with a combination of lazy and/or bad writing and ham-fisted manipulation, I'd give it a solid 7/10.
Storyline is rubbish. I can’t connect myself to the characters and the game is just going forward and backwards. I felt empty at the end. First one is brilliant with a lots of humour and relationship development but this second one it’s full of hatred and dark.
*This game is a hate letter to fans of Joel and Ellie* The Last of Us Part 2 is a betrayal. It undermines the beautifully ambiguous storytelling of the first game and dishonors what Joel and Ellie had to survive and endure. It takes these beloved characters and ruins them to hammer in that Abby was no worse than Joel, Ellie was no better than Joel, and Joel was a villain. In contrast, themes like revenge, violence, and forgiveness all ring hollow in this sadistic game. Neil Druckmann has said he loves Joel and Ellie, but actions speak louder than words. Make no mistake, the Joel and Ellie fans loved from the first game are gone - one literally and the other all but in name. And while most of the fan hate focuses on what was done to Joel, it’s really Ellie who gets the worse treatment. The story Druckmann chose to write takes a tough as nails yet charmingly sarcastic and plucky girl and methodically breaks her, both psychologically and physically. It also makes the player complicit in this narrative with no choices, aside from simply not playing the game. So, Naughty Dog tricked fans into participating in a beautifully produced snuff film and now wants praise for their audacity. Certainly, plenty of professional gaming journalists have done just that, along with allies of social diversity who may or may not have even played the game. To be fair, I can’t fault people too much since any critics run the risk of being labeled bigots and getting blacklisted. In fact, defending the game may even be a way of rationalizing what was done in hopes it wasn’t all for nothing, similar to how other fans might wish it was all just a fever dream. If the choice is between a kind of Stockholm Syndrome or becoming depressed, all the false praise for TLOU2 makes a lot of sense. Seeing the sheer amount of mental gymnastics the defenders of this game are willing to perform is impressive. There’s no doubt what Naughty Dog did to their fans was both by design and rather clever. If there’s one defining zeitgeist of our times, it’s divisiveness. Also, they couldn’t have been given a better time to release than 2020. Truly, a masterpiece of malicious manipulation. There’s just one small problem with Naughty Dog’s strategy - it seems to have alienated a significant portion of their fan base. What that means for the survival of the franchise and the developer only time will tell. But for Joel and Ellie’s sake, an old proverb comes to mind... *Revenge is a dish best served cold*
Absolute trash, this game is the worst game i have ever played. Neil Druckmann is completely delusional. DON'T BUY THIS GAME!!!! We all deserve better including LGBTQ+ . I think it’s strange of sony/naughty dog, to be pro trans but make a trans character that everyone will hate. seems like maybe they are trans phobic themselves but hide it under virtual signalling

This game is stunningly beautiful, has a wonderful soundtrack, amazing performances by the voice actors, and fun, if not great or innovative gameplay. In these aspects, this game is an absolute step up from The Last of Us. However, the story fails to satisfyingly continue from where the previous game ended. Joel's final decision simply didn't need a continuation, as it left the player to decide if they agreed with themselves. Part 2, instead of analyzing how it would have changed the relationship between Joel and Ellie, turns into a revenge plot, that is both miserably dreary, and boring. The problem is not the LGBTQ++ representation, in fact Ellie and Dina's relationship is the best part of the game. The problem is that this game could have been much more, its message could have been told in a much more creative way. Normally, I'd say TLOU Part2 is a good, honest try, but knowing what went down behind the scenes, and the absolute ego that is Neil Druckman, i can not. as much as the story of the game, the story of its development leaves a sour taste.
In all my life of gaming I haven't dealt with such a cliche story with nonsense sprinkled in as a poor attempt to “subvert expectations.” In my mind, the great reviews from all of these companies have been bought out or were formed from sympathy over the leaks that obviously annoyed the community. I played through the game since midnight launch and the story was nowhere near the impact of the first game. There were shoehorns, forced representation that didn't fit the game, a nonsense death of Joel that was reminiscent of if a storm trooper just hunted down and killed Luke Skywalker at the start if the Empire Strikes Back for the destruction of the death star. Political correctness is a cancer that ruined this game along with bad writing and poor lore decisions that feels like a slap in the face to every fan of the original game. It’s hilarious that Naughty Dog was phenomenal with the Uncharted series from beginning to end but let their biggest title slip this hard. The only redeeming quality is some of the gameplay is pretty fun but even then its pretty bland and uninspired. Im deleting the game and never playing it again and I hope many people will read this and decide to not put themselves through the effort this game takes.
This game used false advertising to trick loyal fans into buying the game. Fake cutscenes were shown in trailers that led up to the game’s release, pretending like the first game’s main protagonist was present for the entire game’s story. In reality he dies in the first chapter. This game has such an obvious political agenda that it gets in the way of enjoying the story. Constantly you are reminded that the game’s director is obviously involved in politics. Although I don’t neccessarily disagree with his agenda, a videogame/movie should never become a medium to indoctrinate your audience with certain points and views. I’ll think twice before I give another cent to companies like this. So here you go a 0/10 because if you can deceive fans with a perfect score through other means, than it is my task to fight these things.

I prayed you wouldn’t destroy this game naughty dog. I had a feeling but I still hoped. The games graphics are the ONLY thing this game has going for it. The last of us was beloved by gamers like myself because we connected with the characters and we loved them. We loved how a man who lost his daughter gained a daughter in Ellie. We loved the dynamic and how they interacted with each other. I for one would have doomed the world to save Ellie regardless of any choice. That’s how much I loved her and loved how much Joel needed her. You butchered everything that meant in the last of us 2. The comment I read in one of these reviews said it best. This is the last Jedi. Y’all have gone off on a political agenda. Being woke is more important than good story telling. You failed at everything in tlou2 that made the tlou1 as great as it is. These reviews are not bots but a reflection by the fans on this sh.. show. So sad. Was so hoping you’d have made another great game. What a disaster. Ps if your graphics weren’t as good as they are I’d have given y’all a 0.
You can always tell when the internet plans a review bomb, and honestly it's **** sad really. The entirety of LOU has 10k reviews... this has 60k in 3 days lol, so I don't put any stock into the internet troll jobs that are trying to tank this game. This game isn't a masterpiece, let's get that out of the way. It has an innate flaw built into the story in that it is attempting to build empathy and tell the story from both sides of the coin. In essence, Ellie isn't the protagonist, and Abby isn't the antagonist, these are two people born into a brutally violent world. Both are on the warpath, on quests of revenge after having things done to them that entirely destroy their family, and both are unique in they were powerless to stop it from happening. This game is best boiled down to a tale of two people on a quest of acceptance in finding peace with what the world has done to them, and to ultimately find empathy, and the story works incredibly well. My only real complaint with the story isn't the story itself, but rather the amount of time invested into having to play Abby. Literally half the game is from her perspective. I understand the need for symmetry in a story like this, but I would have preferred a longer more Ellie focused approach, 65/35, 70/30 would have been enough to get the point across I feel. The game play mechanics are smooth, polished, and well done, and the horror elements are there like always, specifically in the hotel/hospital sequences with Abby, those were terrifying, and RAT KING!!! HOLY MOLY!! WOW! As for the people whining about gay relationships etc., politics., I'm a Southern Conservative from Texas, registered Republican, and there was nothing in this game that I remotely considered in your face. The game handled it's messaging well, without being overtly in your face about it. Overall, the game is a solid 25 hours if you move through the story at a decent pace, and one that I greatly enjoyed. It's not perfect though as I've said. The Abby length of play reminded me of Metal Gear Solid: 2, thought not near to that extreme, and I wish we had more time with Ellie. I do admit though, I ended up liking Abby, felt her struggle/pain, and empathized with her the more time I spent with her, so the idea of telling the story from both angles worked well, though I do with it were a bit shorter. 9.0/10, really solid, fun, ambitious as hell game.
O jogo merece 4 levando em consideração os gráficos, mecânicas e som ! A história é simplesmente ridícula e o desfecho, Jesus, impossível gostar. O jogo te força a se tornar uma assassina sangue frio, porém quando no final pode matar a Abby (mulher que matou o Joel) vc a deixa ir ! Pelo menos deixasse isso a cargo do jogador escolher entre matar ou viver. Detestei cada segundo em que vc joga coma Abby, o jogo tenta introduzir personagens totalmente sem carisma numa narrativa pobre. O final é horrível a Ellie perde tudo, um desfecho horrível!

Badly written, terrible ending and disgracefully killed Joel in the most egregious


*Honestly this game is not for fans of the relationship between Joel and Ellie,* this game totally destroys that and it changed it into something unrecognizable for The Last Of Us,* Game play and Graphics are normal, but story is not worth the seven years wait.*
Gameplay is pretty decent if not extremely repatative. They did do a great job with the AI on this game and the graphics, animations, etc all the technical parts of the game are great. The thing that drags this game way down is the shoved in politics, pandering to a crowd that doesn't give a crap about game sin general, and the narrative choices in this game. Played this from start to finish and have no issues with the LGBTQ stuff, Ellie being gay etc just the train wreck in the way the story was told. Even Abby's gameplay was fun but it just didn't fit in this game or world. Joel dieing was a given and would have made much more of an impact if told better.
Compared to first "The last of us" game, this one absolutely disappointed in every way possible. All that this game has massively improved on are graphic and they way player can alter difficulty of the game to their liking. That's pretty much it. Gameplay, story, characters, enemy AI, infected, puzzels... everything lacks quality. It's a solid 4/10 game, maybe a generous 5 at best, however.. considering how bad Naughty Dog treated their employees so that 70% of workers left, considering the abuse of copyrights system on YT, considering how they mislead people with fake teasers/trailers, considering how they ban people on twitter and reddit for memes, considering how they disrespect and spit on their fanbase. This is a 0/10 game. People should avoid this game and avoid to suppord Naughty Dog at all cost. This was supposed to be the game of the year.. but it ended up being a internet meme. Something for real gamers to laugh at.
The controls are tolerable but outdated. The game is boring with too many hours to spend exploring just to gather resources. The story is horrible with no redeeming value specially when compared to the first one. This game is the biggest disappointment of 2020.
Really bad. The first game was fun to explore. I loved finding all of the comic books and waiting around to listen to Ellie’s terrible jokes. It was a story about people trying to still be human in a post-apocalyptic world. I could connect with those characters. The sequel has none of that charm. I just didn’t have fun slogging through the game. It felt like a chore. I felt the same way with the later installments of The Walking Dead game, so maybe it’s just me. Also, they made a really long game, but took out Factions. Not a good trade. They should have cut this in half and made a decent multiplayer mode.
Man,i really liked the first one,joel and ellie embarking on a quest to save the world as ellie is the sole survivor of the catastrophe caused by a virus,which completely engulfed the whole earth.Even though the narrative is not novel,i really liked the survival mechanics,characters,story and world building.It definitely is not the best game as gunplay and AI felt quite weak.But its a harrowing tale of a father who lost his only daughter ,being robbed by unfortunate events fuelled by this catastrophe.Its a surreal experience with satisfying ending.its one of the best games of the last console gen and quite possibly one of the best games of the decade,that being said the last of us 2 felt quite opposite to the first one.Its dark,nonsensical story makes no sense.Its like the story is being written by a teenager full of angst and false sense of ideology,who contradicts his own thoughts.I don know why its so bad. Don't be fooled by all the positive reviews.Game journalists now a days have no standard whatsoever and rate every AAA game 10/10, as they fewer braincells than a chicken(sorry chickens).gameplay was the same with an added jump button and more puzzles than the previous one,Graphics OMG they are marvelous,fantastic.Seeing it on my 4k Tv ,playing on my ps4 pro never felt so awesome.Voice acting and music is awesome no complaints there.But a naughty dog game with idiotic.non sensical story with stupid characters taking stupid decisions , never ever thought of that.I don't like the newly introduced character at all,she is like living embodiment of all the stupidity there ever is(Don't want to include any spoilers ,so not going any deep into it).All in all they really ruined the game.i'll sell the game asap on gameloot.Bought the game from gameloot,they delivered it quite early.Anyway Hardcore fans of the first part like me skip this one,you wont like it.If you are new to the franchise and are just here to enjoy a quality game from sony,albeit with a nonsensical and a braindead story this game has your back. Thank you
Overall TLOU 2 is an ok game. I don't really have any problem with the story overall although I do wish certain things had been presented differently than the current implementation and I really like the exploration in the open zone areas. IMO, the game has taken a step back in a few areas in terms of polish, melee combat, and stealth. I've encountered a few bugs throughout my time playing which while not egregious I did not experience in TLOU 1. This mostly takes place as AI pathing issues and clipping through a wall or floor which requires a restart. Nothing gamebreaking but just kinda annoying in general. In regards to the melee combat, I feel like the flow of it has suffered in order to make way for the dodge mechanic. I can no longer rush up and surprise them with a melee hit to stun them and either take them out or throw them into a grab. Most of the time doing so involves either getting riddled with bullets immediately or treating it as a normal combat initiation. Stealth wise, I feel like the things they've tried to spice up the stealth mechanics such as dogs that can catch your scent and chase you or being able to hide in grass to be more difficult to detect, ultimately ends up muddying the stealth play and I wish it was more like the stealth of TLOU 1. Regarding the enemy AI, I feel like compared to TLOU 1, they are much more likely to instantly shoot you when you pop out of cover to take a shot at them or shoot multiple shots at you in the time it takes to shoot one shot at them but that might just be me so I'm not holding that against it. Visually, the game is great but some parts are a little too heavy on the film grain where it just seems a bit over-bearing for certain parts of the presentation. Overall, I think it's a good game. Not terrible, not amazing, but somewhere in the middle.


The game has such a bad plot and focused to much on the wrong things. other than the graphics and gameplay, this game sucks. oh and BTW naughty dog stop blocking people. take the criticism.
The Last of Us Part II is bad news for story-driven games as it sets the bar even higher than its predecessor. The gameplay is phenomenal, but like the original, it's the story that sticks out. While having some pacing issues (mainly due to its length and bold storytelling format), this sequel surpasses the original in writing, dialogues and character development while working on a seemingly simpler theme, a revenge story. If you think this game's story damages the first one's, you probably never understood The Last of Us.
It doesn't take much to dislike this game, I get it, it was sort of disappointing compared to the first one. The visuals and combat are definitely an improvement, which I think sort of carries this game towards being good. There were definitely times where I was like, "Why is this in the game?" but other times you just got to enjoy the scenery that makes this game especially the Seattle downtown scenery just really made me like this game. I hope they add a multiplayer update in the near future, that could keep players coming back to the game, or else many people will just delete and forget about this game.

Critics don't know anything I don't know why they decided to rate the game what it wasn't. I guess this is what access media is I will never take them seriously ever. Game looks amazing pass that the gameplay is mediocre which honestly this would all be okay if they decided to put more into the story instead they ruined the story completely. No one played The Last of US to have the characters die. Naughty Dog know they were misleading the fans to thinking we would be able to play along side and even get to be Joel. Instead Neil Drunktard wrote directed played and even **** quite literally the game. He should never touch another game ever. This will not go down as a great game that The Last of US was they should remake it call it The Last of US: re and have Ellie wake up to a nightmare as a teen and go from there. Have a play as both Ellie and Joel and introduce a new character and make it a game with multiple ending their I fix it Naughty Dog bring back Bruce Straley to fix this **** Lastly make improvements to the gameplay. Gameplay 5/10 Graphics 10/10 Animations 10/10 Replay None Story 5/10 (cause of its plot wholes and fillers 12 hours of pointless fillers)
The worse story ever created. Game is beautiful, violence is fine. But this game was destroyed by egocentric writers trying to prove something they don't even understand.
False advertising. Being woke. Treating the protagonist like garbage. You name it. I don't like it at all

Gran juego y que los pileros sigan con el indi de las hormigas, xD lo bueno de esto es que por fin desaparece xbox con la próxima generación como le paso a Sega.
TLOU1 is one of the best games of all time. The devs of this one managed to **** on the grave of the first game. I understand that being 'edgy' and 'brave' makes the developers feel better about themselves, but it makes for a ****ty video game experience. The best part of this game were the flashbacks. It is true that the developers are free to tell their own story, and to write it however they want BUT, the fans are free to communicate their dissatisfaction with a crappy narrative and dishonest marketing practices.

0/10 is a **** you play **** you like **** u go buying this **** don.t buy this
玩了十几个小时后，我就放弃了。角色的个性很差，故事的进展很乱。看了网上播放结局后，根本就不想继续。结局真的烂透啊！我劝告大家别玩这烂游戏。
Tecnicamente incrível, mas a história e o enredo do jogo são MUITO RUINS. eu me forcei a zerar esse jogo antes de Ghost of Tsushima e foi difícil, muitas vezes cai no ostracismo, a parte de Eliie é MUITO chata, só se salva o hospital, e a forçação pra por a Abby e a perspectiva dela, meu Deus, muito chato. Muita decepção até pelo primeiro jogo ser um dos meus favoritos.
Otimo game, ambientação linda. Longe de ser perfeito, narrativa ótima, junto com uma historia envolvente e comovente... gameplay... ah, a gameplay, que delicia de game. Mto show, recomendo a tds os usuários de ps4. Nao é obrigatório pq ngm é obrigado a nd. Mas de uma chance pra essa obra de arte que vc vai curtir e se emocionar!!! Parabéns ND
The Last of Us Part II es tan sombrío y violento como se anuncia, pero no sin calidez ni humanidad, hay algunos momentos realmente hermosos y tiernos que marcan la miseria y el trauma. Estas experiencias se acentúan entre sí. Si bien no se pueden discutir muchos detalles de los personajes aquí, ya que potencialmente estropearía la sorpresa de cualquier personaje nuevo o recurrente, siento la necesidad de elogiar especialmente el trabajo de Ashley Johnson como Ellie. Johnson ha ganado su momento en el centro de atención aquí, ella trae una actuación de otro mundo al juego como una Ellie más vieja y desgastada. Las capas de trauma y resentimiento han creado un callo a su alrededor, como una armadura hecha de tejido cicatricial que ella usa para protegerla del mundo exterior o para dejar que otros entren, pero las sombras de la niña que conocimos y amamos hace siete años aún se abren paso desde tiempo al tiempo. Troy Baker, de manera similar, ofrece el mejor desempeño en su carrera como Joel ofreciendo nuevos tonos de vulnerabilidad al rol, incluso en un rol más de apoyo. Estos son hermosos The Last of Us Part II te lleva al corazón de la oscuridad, dentro y fuera, y provoca al jugador a sentir cosas y confrontar ideas que el género de acción y terror rara vez se atreve. Incluso su predecesor solo coqueteó con el tipo de ideas que explora The Last of Us Part II , hasta el codo. The Last of Us Part II es una obra de arte sombría y valiente de un estudio que trabaja en la cima absoluta de su poder. Han sido expertos en escenas cinematográficas durante mucho tiempo, esta podría ser la primera vez que hacen un juego donde la narración y los temas centrales también se comunican de manera efectiva a través del juego en sí. Una obra maestra inigualable, nunca ha habido un juego tan profundo, tan inquietante y tan visceralmente atractivo como The Last of Us Part II antes y tal vez nunca haya otro como este. Cuando cerré el juego, pensando en las cosas que había visto y las cosas que había hecho, quizás nunca debería haber otra como esta. No estoy seguro de estar preparado para lo que vendrá después. En general La obra maestra más valiente y oscura de Naughty Dog hasta la fecha y uno de los mejores juegos de esta generación
I gave this game a 3 as the gameplay and graphics are really good. I managed perhaps a little over halfway then stopped through the game I am not sure if I should bash on and compleat it but I feel like such a sociopath playing Abbi. The main issue I have is the story, It is just terrible and really detracts from any enjoyment did ND forget that games are for enjoyment and entertainment? Perhaps. I Get they went for the not fun approach and wanted to go down the grim dark route. The way old characters are portrayed or have their story lines end I think was a choice given to cheep shock factor or a copy cat of walking dead but carried out and executed very poorly. The new character Abbi has been made a bit of a Mary Sue the story tries Really hard to encourage you to relate too or like her but this is I fear imposable given her actions and arrogance. Other characters do not so much brake character as completely smash it and give no good reason as too why. The story is also confusing jumping between flashbacks Ellie and Abbi. There is also a horrid sex scene that makes you feel awkward and a little disturbed. Over all I would not recommend this game to anyone. Update: Now I have finished the game. The story just did not improve and the ending was extremely unsatisfying. Don't bother trying to stealth your way through and you are pretty much scripted to get into to much ****

Yo me juegue el 1 completo una obra maestra sin duda, vi el dlc donde intentaron dejar claro la orientación sexual de allie, nadie hizo el problema por eso pero en esta parte deja muy mal gusto y en mal momento estos temas políticos de correcion política y los personajes que desarrollaron se vuelven tediosos y ps que traten de hacer que te tragues todo esto de la inclusión con cuchara es irritante durante toda la trama quizás neil, quizo simpatizar con la ideología que sigue o le gusta pero no todo el mundo simpatiza con estos temas y creo que fue muy mala idea que se hiciera justo en el mundo actual en medio de esta pandemia, si le hubieras dado más desarrollo al tema principal de la infección del cordyses hubiese quedado mejor en vez de desarrollar tantos personajes LGTB y no piensen que es homofobia porque la verdad exageraron se les pasó la mano, y ps en mi punto de vista es grave porque genera odio incontrolable de parte de muchos y más si sale alguien y se expresa de manera despectiva hacia los fans del video juego además a muchos les molesto que se colgaran de publicidad engañosa, y tenemos todo el derecho a criticar muchos pagamos por un buen producto y las críticas no son por capricho.
Joel died because he had to, maybe all of you didn’t realize that he was de enemy of the entire planet with a simple lie to the savior who had the cure, he went against the will of Ellie and kill innocents in the midway I obviously would have chosen the same but is wrong thing ‘cause we r thinking with the heart and not with the head.


The storyline is so messed up I don't know why they did it in this way specially Joel's death there are many better ways to do that but sure not this one what I'm giving this game is absolute 0 characters 0 storyline 0 I will never buy this franchise ever again its dead already what I feel is Abby is the one who will bring Elli to firefly in part 3 which is disgusting and if u finished everything in part one that would be great but unfortunately u already lose ur fans naughty dog


me mato la experiencia no puedo creer lo que hicieron fue desagradable y la verdad fue un guion mediocre y pretencioso una trama alargada por un personaje desagradable el cual quisieron hacer que empaticemos con ella intentando justificar su aciones y destruyendo a los otros dos personajes uno matandolo de una manera rapida y cruel y al otro personaje de una forma lenta y dolorosa durante todo el juego. para demostra que la venganza es mala

Gonna be as honest as I can here... K.... here we go. I absolutely hated this game after "you know what happens." Hated it! I didn't want to play anymore, but I felt like I had to because I hold the first game in such high regard. So, I mustered on. Staying away from spoilers, I didn't like the characters or the story in this game. This game, was a chore to finish. Ideally, I look forward to playing video games, this was a game that felt like an uphill battle to finish. There were a couple of stand-out sequences throughout the adventure, but there wasn't one character, I really liked or cared about in this game.... yes... that's even true of Ellie. Moving on to the graphics, of course, Naughty Dog knocks it out of the park here! The graphics are outstanding! But the story..... oh man :-( So, why am I giving this game a 7? Because it made me feel things. It made me angry, frustrated, scared... it made me feel things in a AAA game, I haven't felt before and the graphics and game play, are excellent. One last thought I realized today as I was playing "Ghost of Tsushima." For me, TLOU2 was not fun! Not at all. It was a chore to finish and I had to force myself through it. Ghost of Tsushima, is fun and I find myself anxious to play again during times I need to be responsible... like, ya know... working for a living. I'd much rather have fun playing video games than being stressed out about it. I never want to play TLOU2 again. Once, is enough.
Amazing graphics, amazing visuals, amazing details, amazingly smooth gameplay, amazing UI Weak story Same old guns, same old skill tree, you will have to upgrade every guns twice and skills upgrade twice -1 for weak story -1 for same repetitive guns and skills which was already done in Last of us 1

I played this game for a couple of hours only to find they Had killed off My favourite characterJoel and replaced him with a over the top Buff woman who i hope did not have to play. This game was presented to us several years back as a trailer and i thought i was going to play Joel but i was lied to by their Marketing strategy. The visuals are Amazing. The game was not emotional like The first ever favourite Last of us Remastered. Im sure they could have done better with the story as the charactyers make the story happen. Please dont make a third one. Once dead always dead. Very sad where they directed the game. The company called us fans who did not like it Trolles and haters. I dont like to be told what to play as a fan as i spent $99 AUD for this game as a cd. I took it back and got a full refund. The Journo Critics will say anything great about the game....But remember they get paid to play these games and get exclusive deals... I dont beleive in the Metacritc score as they are also misleading us as fans. Use your own judgment. Play to enjoy and have fun.. play the game and see if it is for you. Waste of $99 aud as there are better games out ther than this one
I love the 1st game so much, the father and daugther relationship between joel and eli. In this game i love the graphics, the sound, the voice acting, its almost a perfect game if you think of it if they make the story so good just like the 1st one i would rate it 10, The characters in this game is unlikeable and you cannot relate to them, i hate the story specially the ending And i think this game doesn't deserve a higher score and dont understand why ign and some corporate reviews give this a perfect score I am dissapointed in this game it's like tlj again


They did Joel dirty in this game 1) "They were actually going to make a cure" One of the very first things 's says is in the game is extremely problematic. People justify their own actions. They choose to interpret events, especially uncertain events, in a way that is favorable to them. If you go to a prison, every single person will claim innocent. This is practically a fundamental truth. There is no way to know for sure what the fireflies chance of finding a cure were. So it is something people are free to Interpret how they want. Here are two examples: (A) 0% chance of cure: is a hero who saved from dying a pointless death. The surgeon is a monster who was willing to sacrifice an innocent girl for a 1 in a million chance for a cure. has NO reason to hate . (B) 100% chance of cure: is a monster who robbed humanity of a cure. The surgeon is a hero who died trying to save humanity. has a reason to hate forever. Which way do you think and would chose to interpret things? It makes sense for to believe "truth" B. Of course she would rather think of her father as a hero rather than a monster. Similarly, would believe "truth" A where he is a hero. He would never choose to believe in a Interpretation that would give a reason to hate him. The beginning of the game should have been like this: "It was a shot in the dark. One in the million chance for a cure. Everything I had seen suggested as much. The speed they decided to sacrifice the 's only immune. Not even trying to get 's approval. The incompetence I had seen across the country... I couldn't stand the idea of dying for nothing. So I killed them all." ----- However, Neil gave a lobotomy and had him say, "They were actually going to make a cure" 2) the most important moment of part one is undone in part two. At the end of first game, asks a question. lies. He doesn't tell the truth that will make her hate him. In part two, the exact same scenario plays out again. asks about what really happened at the hospital. This time tells the "truth" and makes her hate him. There was nothing preventing him from giving a version of events that was favorable to him (0% chance of cure). This directly contradicts the end of the first game. ----- Neil gave a lobotomy and forced him to believe 's "truth". Neil then game him another lobotomy to force him to tell that "truth" to . In the end, hates for something that he himself told her. This is unbelievable. They did dirty in this game.
Graphics alone will not make a game great. Terrible story,same mechanics of the first one.already has some softlocking glitches,agenda pushing,insults to religion's, main and side characters die or become weak unlike the first, should've had us play as tommy instead of the person you let die a million times. Just all around terrible garbage with outdated mechanics and graphics is the only thing viable 0/10.
Based on points. Graphical department in all regards level design and sound. Superb. 10 out of 10. It's even confirmed by nathan drake s ring found in a vault in seattle that occur in the same universe both tlou and uncharted. But only in tlou counts. But gotta tell u ND nathan drake is a mass murdered who left thousands of daughters and sons without their fathers. Why not make a game where all those neca hunt drake to the grave? No... you just gotta do it for tlou. Ok fine. Then if all npcs matter now, why are you repeating same models for npcs throughout tlou2? Why? Coz if all kills count all of them should SHOULD be different NPCS and more now with the level of graphics and realism you're applying to this game. That disconnected a lot from what you were trying to say. So it's bad to kill in tlou world because it has consequiences but what about same model npcs that repeat themselves all across the board. And now you use that excuse that for more fun because that's part of the fun in ND games Joel killed an entire hospital full of nocs and that justifies being disrespectful toward a character just for the sake of taking this world too real??? Come on Then your game is based on getting revenge for that beloved character? Ok. That's why I played it then. To see what this thing would be at the end But then at the middle of the game you put a stop to play a kojima mgs2 stunt and gives us the fans the playable killer of our beloved icon. And although gameplay is fun, character shows nothing of remorse. For her to imitate joel killing lots of npcs is ok? And what about that? Is she adding awful karma so people will come after her? Is this a game of revenge or was it about the pandemic and survival? Turns out its revenge now... And then at the end ellie never gets hers. Not only she is denied of that. But in a burst of rage she is about to kill Abby and she even bites off 2 fingers and in that burst of anger she stops? No one in the real world would... Maybe jesus or ghandi or mandela... But never a video game character to which the game wasn't aiming towars forgiveness ever. Hey ND I tell u at least u could ve corrected that mistake by ellie not saving abby but not killing either. Knowing she was meeting her end hanged... and that could ve fixed at least the intention. Seeing that not always revenge gets u your goal, but violent people can .eet their end by their own karma and actions. I dream of seeing a scene where ellie says to hanged abby: i came to kill u but u are already dead / i won't kill u but i won't save u either u are dead And then to put the final nail in the coffin ellie gets severed of her last connection to joel. The guitar. She loses all. Then I wonder Joel denied her being mankind s savior but ND denies her the life that Joel gave her once. Because she now has nothing. No joel. No connection. No couple. No famikiy. So ellie is more than broken now. Did she deserved that fate as a character? What did she do? Are you punishing her ? For what ND? Come on. And I didn't even mentioned agendas of stupid sexuality things. That is beyond stupid to low a score based on that. I just feel betrayed as a fan in this matter. You could ve done better by still being grittier and rral. But no. For me it's a fail. This game is really no masterpiece. Misery is what u get and really ND don't even think of getting a 3rd part out. U killed ellie . No excuses. That is what killing a character does to fans. Betrayal of icons. So for a linear story driven game all I got was something that missed the mark. Giving misery to beloved things just is not the way to go. If I could I d erase what I witnessed. But we'll. It was so big my disappointment that I had to come here to publish my personal rate on this game. Sorry ND but you just lost a hardcore fan of your first game.

One of best games of this generation. Beat it yesterday and loved every second of it. The only complain is that it dragged a little at the end. But overall loved it.
Incredible graphics is about the only "pro" for the game... Disrespectful to those who loved the first game, i.m.o... It's a linear game where you're forced to do things you don't want to do (and then it feels like the game's creators are berating you for it). Plot-holes a plenty. Plot su!c!de. Too much virtue signaling. Story left a lot to be desired. Frankly, felt preached at in some ways (and the creators would have never tolerated the same from particular religious groups). Please don't make a 3rd game.
Last of us part1 was one of my favourite game Part2 is just a disappointment Story was not good I loved the Abby's character but I feel like game making Us to hate her Feel like story presented in a wrong way I want full game featured Abby in future
I just got done playing this game and it surely is nothing like the first one they lied to us during some of the trailersThey made it look like Joe when Eli was going on another adventure but it’s nothing like that the story was awful and if I had known it was going to be the way it was I would have never bought it I wish I could get my money back
Game mechanics are awesome: ability to sneak in grass, crafting table (pistol silencer, optic sights), partial open world. I love the way player need to scavenge to create better equipment, to find collectibles, etc. This is positive points in this game. And that's it. Nothing more. At all. They totally f****d up the story. In the begin game gave to you motivation to fight, motivation for revenge. And, when you think you are going to take, what you want, they said: "Wait! Play another f****g character. That one, who killed the main character of previous game." I'm talking about Abby. I don't know about other people, but I did not feel sympathy for this character. I wanted only one: to skip second part of the game and go to the end, when Ellie will revenge for Joel. In TLOU we don't have any LGBT stuff, in DLC they said that Ellie is part of this community. Honestly I don't see anything, that will point at this (even when silly little schoolgirls, who don't understand anything in feelings yet, kissing each other), but if developers decide so - as you wish. But TLOU2 has whole LGBT post-apocalyptic world. The world is dying and the only thing that is important, by thoughts of developers, is same sex relationships?! WTF?! And during whole game they pointing with this. Pointing, pointing, POINTING! You are such an annoying ass, Naughty Dog! You f****d up! Many players and me are disappointed. You killed Joel so cruel way and I will never forgive you.
Is it too bad that many feel betrayed or is it just because the story kind of flopped? Either way, I'm telling you to DONT WASTE YOUR MONEY ON THIS GAME NOT WORTH IT!!!
Só pra dizer. Quem lacra não lucra. Tirar um dos melhores personagens já feitos no início do jogo pra dar espaço pra um romancezinho meia boca, pra nas entrelinhas fazer discurso político é o cúmulo. Vocês não precisavam fazer essa palhaçada, simplesmente não dá vontade de jogar pois a história não consegue entreter o suficiente pra superar o choque que que o início causa. Bah tá louco
Gameplay and visuals are insanely good. Story is meh, not terrible, but meh. Having to play as Joel's killer is my issue. Abby is unlikeable, uninteresting and hollow. I couldn't care less about her and spending half the game playing her is just a disgrace.
I still can't believe what I've just finished. This game is a joke! It is a beautifully looking title, no questions there, but the story is unbearable. Falsely advertise title, so many plot holes. ridiculous decisions and EXTREMELY boring characters. Don't waste your money for a title and a company, which has no respect towards fans of the game. One of the biggest disappointment in the history of video games.
The game is visually stunning with one of the most satisfying gunplay in video games. However the entire point of the game was a revenge story which led to something else entirely which is why its not perfect and doesn't deserve the must play status.
Obra prima en todos os aspectos! História envolvente, gráficos maravilhosos, ótima mixagem de áudio e trilha sonora. Um dos melhores jogos da geração PS4 e, possivelmente, dos últimos anos.
gameplay is satisfying. In my opinion as long as everything is so sharp story doesn’t matter. I reckon those who care so much about story there is Netflix.
This game is by no means as bad as some people make it out to be. But neither is it a masterpiece. The mechanics are ripped out of the new Tomb Raider games with stealth, crafting, melee and gunplay. Though there is a slight addition of watching your trail with dogs that can sniff you out, as well as sound cues from enemies similar to Officer Enemies whistling from Sniper Elite 3/4. Little innovation compared to the first game, though at least it isn't a game-long escort mission. This meets expectations for game published by a major studio. But that's all. (5/10) The story, which seems to be the most controversial part, is a massively over-hyped "was it worth it" revenge story. Very unoriginal. And while the quality is not bottom-of-the-barrel as some are inclined to believe, it is unimaginative, and very much average. (5/10) Graphics-wise, the game looks how one expects a Triple A game to look. Polished, and refined. But that's expected. It does not stand out beyond that. (5/10) Base score: (5/10) Additional factors: The social justice angle is something I find meaningless to the story. So what if the main character is straight, gay, bi or otherwise "non-binary?" Did it add anything to the story? No. Does it detract from the story? Also no. The story stands on its own merits, though as I said above, it needs work. The fact that this game had a "pre-order incentive" that affects gameplay is a major sticking point for me personally. Just for that, -1 from the score. Finally, Naughty Dog, get over yourself. You and your works are not some gift from on high. You have fallen victim to creator bias. You are unable to see the GLARING flaws in your product, which is understandable, and you are lashing out at anyone who dares suggest that it is less than a masterpiece. A "masterpiece" is defined as "a work of outstanding quality/workmanship." Your studios workmanship is hardly outstanding. It was average for a Triple A studio. And this game (based SOLELY on its own merits) is also average. It is not a masterpiece. "Outstanding," by the way, is defined as "exceptionally good." Do enlighten us all as to what is "exceptional" about this game in regards to the quality or workmanship, let alone "exceptionally good." And if your response has something to do with the main character being a strong female with non-traditional orientation, let me stop you right there. That has NOTHING to do with the QUALITY or WORKMANSHIP of your game. Final score: (4/10) due to pre-order scumminess. 5/10 otherwise. My rubric: 0/10: Unfinished. I never give credit for unfinished work. 1/10: Alpha. Severely Broken. There was an attempt, but that's all that can be said. 2/10: Beta. Major improvements needed, but at least the game is beyond the conceptual stage. 3/10: Broken. Some work is required to optimize and fix the technical issues. 4/10: Unimpressive. Falls below expectations, but otherwise a functional game. 5/10: Average. On par with other games of its bracket. No more. No less. 6/10: Novel. There are a few aspects that are different from others of its kind. 7/10: Exceptional. Significantly better than the average game. 8/10: Stand-out. Truly innovative mechanics/story, very high quality. 9/10: Masterpiece. Very few flaws. Minimal improvements can be made to this game. 10/10: Perfection. Actually, literally perfect. Zero flaws. Also impossible.
The game gives everything to abby and basically spits in the face of ellie worst game to ever be created trash pure garbage
Calling this game a disappointment would be an understatement, destroys characters from the first game, poor pacing, characters from the first game act completely different to the point where you think it's just to push the plot, hardly any of the new characters are interesting or even likeable to the point when they die you don't even care. Beautiful art style, great looking game and improved gameplay from the first.
wha a legit terrible game. Graphics are amazing. Gameplay is fun! The story and narative is I think the worst sequel story I have ever seen. It's actually how sad this game actually is. I hope naughty dog learns from this in there next game because they have wrecked one of the best IP's of all time.

i really didnt have fun, i feel i wasted my 60bucks. i just didnt care about the story, it was a chore, boring unfun and made me sad. i even saw a traumatizing scene. it must be returned
Please just save your money. Please. This game is HORRIBLE I'm honestly speechless at how had it is. Yeah good graphics woohoo, but story? Yeah dont count on it. I can not believe ND would even do this to their fans and how Neil Druckman still has a job? Its beyond me.

I love this game so much not just because of that I love lthe last of us 1, because it’s full of surprises, its show you Love, passion, anger, revenge,... All I want to say, Why do some critics give this game low scores and criticize the game?
This is the most terrible sequel that could have been made! Thank you Neil for leaving without a good game!
AWEFUL GAME!! They destroyed EVERYTHING I loved about the first last of us!!! How do you buy a game to play as Batman, play Batman for half the game, the next half is YOU doing everything in your power to KILL Batman!!!!
Honestly, I absolutely loved the game from start to finish. As much as I loved the first if not more-so. I'm sure people have their reasons for the hate, however I played the whole game through and genuinely enjoyed it. Best game i played all year, beating out Sekiro. Don't listen to the hate. PLAY THIS GAME

Pls don’t buy last of us part 2, I played this game very optimistic, I didn’t look at leaks or reviews. I just played it for myself and boy I tell you it was disappointing. First off, people like me that hate the game don’t hate it because Joel died, it’s how he died, he died like a side character. It was a failure, I don’t mind seeing Joel die, as long as it’s done properly and that’s not it. It was stupid, like the first game didn’t happen, and I hate how they make you play as Abby afterwards like what???? At that point of the game I was pissed playing the game but I still finish it for the sake of revenge for Joel but NOPEEE! Denied


This game is truly one of the worst sequels of all time. Naughty Dog completely disrespects the characters and the players who liked the first game. Joel's treatment in the game is a disgrace. The wrting is embarrassingly bad and cringe many points in the game. The worst part is how they made Elle a jerk. Avoid this game if you loved the first one. To say nothing of the SJW and feminist agenda. Every significant male character gets killed. While the diverse stunning and brave females survive. It's laughable!!
Хорошая игра, детализированная до мелочей, атмосферная музыка и потрясающий визуал. Сюжет можно описать одним предложением. Представьте, у Вас есть любимый герой из предыдущей части новой игры, один из самых харизматичных мужчин в игровой истории, которого забивает с особой жестокостью насмерть клюшкой от гольфа накаченная стероидами фемина без особо различимых половых признаков. Клюшкой от гольфа, в деталях. Клюжкой. От гольфа. Символично, посыл понят. И после всего этого - целую вторую половину игры мы играем за эту няшечку. Гениальный подход и почва для ненависти. Спасибо директору проекта за то, что концептуально и сюжетно серию The Last of Us похоронили за бетонным плинтусом. Отличное подтверждение тому, что ультралевые взгляды рушат абсолютно все, к чему они только прикладывают свои ручки. И нет, господин Дракманн, я не расист, не сексист, но на Вашу пропаганду возможно смотреть только с вилками в глазах. И, да, в игре есть не повестка, а именно пропаганда. Постапокалиптический мир ведь идеальная среда для обсуждения таких тем как: однополые отношения, шовинизм, половое неравенство и трансгендерность. Fallout от маня-мира господина Дракманна. Видно, что игру делали через кровь и пот все сотрудники Naughty Dog. Играя на PS4 Slim невольно задумываешься, какой талант нужно иметь, чтобы такую малютку заставить выдавать такую сочную и насыщенную картинку. Низкий Вам поклон. Очень жаль, что такое амбициозный проект был задушен его же создателем. Как говорил Джоэл, мне бы хотелось, чтобы все было иначе, но это не так. Из уважения к коллективу разработчиков и за их труды поставлю 6/10

Beautiful sound and graphics, average gameplay that brings nothing new and really bad story. There are lots of plot holes and no character development. It'd be an OK game if it were from some new IP. It's really painful to see what they have done with Joel and Ellie just for shock factor.
One of the best game experiences that I had. And I'm having the big sad because of peaple that couldn't appreciate something new amd didn't understand the theme of the game and why Joel was killed and why we paly as Abby 50% of the game. This is honestly THE GAME OF THE PS4 GENERATION. I really hope that ND will do something as brave and new in the future again.
After finishing this last night, I now cannot believe the backlash this game is receiving from players. This is a hyper realistic game in almost every sense. How could we ever think that our beloved Joel's villainous actions at the end of the first game were going to have no consequences, no payback? Joel was an amazing character to play as but he was definitely the villain at the end of part I. This is a fantastic continuation. Highly recommended.
Crudele, sublime e potente. Avevo alte aspettative da Naughty Dog e devo dire che sono state soddisfatte. Regia e narrativa raggiungono un livello altissimo.
I cannot understand how on earth mainstream critics have described this game as a masterpiece. It genuinely boggles my mind. I will try and be as fair as I can to the game, and I will say it does some things really very well indeed. But there are so many flaws that the game fails to remotely do the Last of Us 1 any justice whatsoever. Just to start with, I am very left wing, non white and I'm trans, so when I hear that people are giving this game poor reviews because they are right wing, anti gay right bigots, that is just such nonsense (I mean maybe a very small handful are, but most are not), I feel it's designed to almost guilt people into not giving this game a poor rating. I actually didn't feel this game was trying to throw and SJW agenda down my throat, or trans issues, or gay rights. The only thing forced on us is "revenge = bad". The characters were all the types of people we would likely find in most workplaces or communities, so that was not an issue. Now that's out of the way, the game itself. This game is, for the most part, absolutely stunning. It is quite possibly the most gorgeous game to hit any console. The character models are really nicely done and perfectly animated. The world is superbly designed and I found it beautiful, even in its state of decay. Top Marks to N.Dog for this. But unfortunately, almost all of the marks I can give this game are just for that alone. A great game does not have to have great graphics, there are plenty of decent games with mediocre graphics. Last of us 1 looked good. But this was not the reason it was so loved by its fans (including myself). The reason I loved the game was the story. It was so well written, perfectly balanced between heart-wrenching and uplifting, and the ending was one of the best ever, allowing us to empathise with the "bad guys" that want to sacrifice Ellie for humanity, and Joels love for Ellie, and his selfishness in wanting her to live. Amazing. Beyond that, TLOU1 was largely mediocre. Graphics were OK, exploration was fine, combat was not too bad, crafting was a bit dull, but all of that was OK because of the story. Now, back to part 2. The graphics as mentioned, are wonderful, a massive jump ahead, but nothing else has moved forward. Combat is still just OK, the stealth part of the game is alright at best, the exploration is actually in large sections just dull. But this time, the story fails to pull the game together and save it from utter mediocrity. Starting with the fate of Joel. Lets just throw out his character entirely. Lets just pretend that after years of survival, Joel just decides to become a complete muppet and abandon all of the survival skills he has ver built up. Then there is his demise, taken out by a person who he has literally just saved, just to give shock value I would guess, but it seemed such a lazy narrative choice. Hated it. It also makes you instantly dislike Abby, I mean, we have loved Joel for 7 years and in 2 hours have seen him brutally killed. But then you have to play her, I think to make you realise she is not so bad and driven by the revenge of her fathers death, fine, ok. The issue is, her character is so thinly written, a 2D, poorly fleshed out person. You have no connection with her and so spend maybe a third of the game forced to play a person that you do not like or care about. Other game characters are equally poorly written, predictable, you end up just not caring about them. When you play Ellie, its mostly just her, a sad shadow of the Ellie from TLOU1. The flashbacks with Joel are done well, but the game is worse for not having the dynamic and light hearted fun moments that made the first game so special. Then there is the violence. It didn't bother me so much, but is largely over the top and often needlessly gratuitous in its deployment. But that's not what bothered me. What finally put the nail in the coffin for me was the fact that Ellie kills left right and centre, whether its women, men, dogs, there is no issue. But at the climax of the story she has her chance to avenge Joel and she just chooses that moment to forgive and forget. Really!?? It also doesn't help that you find Joels death was all for nothing, he was making amends for his decisions in game 1. Arrggggghhhh. Really poor choice of a way to kill off a main character. In summary, (like this review I imagine) the game is long winded, poorly paced with unlikable or badly written characters. The gameplay is just fine, nothing more than you'd expect from a large studio, but not impressive in an y way. And the ending just sucks. But it does look nice!
The chaos of the plot, the misplacement of the character's personality, the meaningless battles are too many. Intentionally using the feelings of a generation to deceive players to buy, even if the picture quality is very good, there isThe chaos of the plot, the misplacement of the character's personality, the meaningless battles are too many. Intentionally using the feelings of a generation to deceive players to buy, even if the picture quality is very good, there is no mood to watch on the way to play. no mood to watch on the way to play.
This game is not bad because it tries new ideas or motives of creative desire. It is bad because it has no consistency of content that would explain or elaborate into fun game play. The writing at its best is just character driven torture porn. And the payoff for the investment into the Odyssey embarked on is a contradiction of a ending which serves only to reveal naughty dogs ineptitude at handling this sequel. Do not play this. ( Btw it took me nearly 2 days to post this review because metacritic is actively throttling negative reviews. They believe all these low scores are somehow the work of disgruntled bigots instead of fans who just believe this to be an inferior product of a game. So a majority of these negative reviews are simply timed out when they hit the server. While the positive ones even if spam are kept instead. That way they can't be blamed for their despicable business practices. I will not bow to this corporate censorship and neither should you. For anyone who enjoyed this game I'm genuinely happy for you. I wish I could have the same joy from this work of fiction)
Really, the truth lies somewhere in the middle. No, the game certainly isn't bad and doesn't deserve a score of lower than five or something. But the critic reviews are completely undeserved, too. The game isn't a 10/10 or even an 8/10. You could argue 7, but that is generous. From a technical standpoint, TLOU2 is amazing. You can clearly see the hard work put into the graphics, music and voice acting. The gameplay is fun. But the praise the first game of the series got mainly wasn't due to technical stuff. It was such a success because of the story and the characters and that's why part 2 should be judged for those factors as well. And they just don't hold up. Part 1 was great because it was ambigous. As the player you had to judge the character's actions for yourself and there was room for interpretation. The writing was subtle and emotional. Yes, there were tense moments, shocking moments and sadness. But it was balanced out with lightheartesness and tragic beauty. Part 2 throws that out of the window. It's one horrible emotional gut punch after another. Horrible things happen – but they don't make you pause and reflect because it's just a neverending onslaught of misery. At a certain point you stop feeling connected to the story because it's so incredibly obvious these things happen purely for shock value. A lot of contrived stuff as well. The main characters have so much plot armour – they're saved at the last moment again and again and again. I could look past that, honestly. But what really disappointed me was how heavy handed the writing was. Gone are the subtleties. It's so obvious how the game wants to make you feel throughout the story – to a manipulative degree. But despite this I never felt connected to the characters because I was never onboard with any of their horrible and often times stupid choices. Spoiler: I realy don't care how many dogs I get to pet as Abby, I still don't like her. The writers wanted the player to feel for her so badly, but I can't bring myself to do it. Even if she gets the most fun gameplay sequences. The problem I have with Abby is that she never ever reflects on her own actions. She's the one who encouraged her father to perform the operation that would have killed Ellie. And she never once questions her decision or her father's. She thinks she's justified in the beginning of the story and she still feels that way at the end. She even becomes Lev's Joel and kills her own people to save him. And yet she never makes that connection and never feels bad for what she did. I was disappointed in Ellie's character development as well. She flip flops about whether or not she should kill Abby all the time. The story might have been salvageable if it had ended on the farm. But now I don't even feel invested in what happens to any of the characters in the inevitable third installment. My biggest gripe with the game is that it tries to make you feel bad about playing it. What kind of decision is that? The message of the game is "revenge is bad, don't kill people". Ellie and Abby lose so much because they can't grasp that simple idea. And in the end both of them refrain from killing each other when they get the chance. But while the game tries to hammer down that moral standpoint, it makes you kill endless amounts of NPCs and makes it fun to pick them off one by one. That kind of makes the message of the game hypocritical. The whole story revolves around the consequences of Joel killing one NPC in the first installment. And here we are, killing hundreds more. So TLOS2 is basically a guy wearing leather boots and a coat made from polar bear cubs preaching about the moral superiority of vegan food.
I have to give my 2 cents to the rating here, although I can't add very much new stuff. For me, it is truly a miracle how these good reviews came here. I had a very hard time finishing the game and no, it's not because of the violence, horror and also not because of Joel's death (everybody excepted him to die... but the way it happened was still to soon and illogical ). What Neil Druckman tried, didn't work for me at all. No matter how stupid and evil Ellie got, I was on her team (Loyalty and stuff you know). And in addition to that, Abbys Story had me hate her even more. I saw absolutely nothing nice about her or regrets. In the end I felt I wasted 25h of my life feeling depressed because I waited 7 years and even was looking forward playing the sequel and I really thought: naughty dog never let me down. They can handle Abby in a way I will understand. But no, just ruin everything you liked about the first part and write a story so that it makes you feel you are watching a soap opera. But a cheap one. Really? So many plotholes? Mixing the terms vaccine and cure to one so you don't understand what exactly joel **** up. Still don't believe a cure / vaccine by the fireflys would have been a good thing in this world... Also the map drop, countless surprises that don't develop... they just happen... ah I really don't want to think about it anymore. The other bad reviews make a good job already. The overall story, what it wanted to say in the end is good. Don't get me wrong. But while I was playing I did not understand how the decisions developed. And THIS IS MY BIGGEST PROBLEM. And a lot of people have the same problem. It's just not a smooth transfer from 1 to 2.

The only reason I'm giving a five is because that score is meant for the Naughty Dog team who did all the wonderful work in combat, puzzles and visuals and not the story writing/screenplay. The story gets a ZERO from me and hence the score is FIVE. This game is an excellent example of how a game can be ruined if there's no proper story to tell. Even the stunning visuals couldn't save it from the plotholes, bad character depiction and insulting storytelling that was shown. The writer did no character justice - Ellie, Joel, Tommy, Abby - none of them were relatable. The former 3 had completely different personalities compared to part 1 and Abby's story should have been kept at first so that she can be relatable. Other plot holes were the unrealistic demonstration of including a pregnant woman in combat, unrealistic body figures for women, men showing callousness during combat way more than they actually do, showing women as weak and unable to kill the last person they should let go even though she has killed SO MANY people shows that this game hates both men and women. The image of LGB community was also shown really bad, the image they are trying to portray was so frivolous and mindless. This is not how LGB community is, just because they love the same sex or two sex does not mean that they have no morals or good ideals. They have been portrayed so disgustingly that people will feel like discriminating against them even more, thanks to this game. Transgenderism is a thing that exists during our times because people are not trying to survive, they are just living without care in the world. In a post apocalyptic scenario, no one would be thinking whether they "feel" like a man or woman, everyone is trying hard to survive here and such things will not even cross their mind. The story and scene setting is so unrealistic, it's as if nothing had been thought through and the writer just wanted to sell a game for money and not because he loves TLOU1. This game is one of the worst games for me because 1) A game is made because you have a story in mind, didn't seem like that case with this one. 2) A game is made to detox you from the world so that you can face the real world again, this game didn't help me do that...hell it's not even a game, this story would have done better if it were a movie. Very disappointed at the writers in Naughty Dog.
There are several good qualities about this game in regard to level, sound, and graphic design. There are also some really heartwarming scenes between Joel and Ellie, though in rather drawn out sequences mostly void of any action. The main problems however - which overbear any redeemable quality - are the direction of the plot along with the decisions made by each character. Most rational fans understood that Joel was going to die, but there were a million other ways it could have happened and still retained the game’s realism. Instead, they made Joel and Tommy out to be a couple of dumbass amateurs in the process. Not only do players hate Abby at this point, but they are then forced to play as her for the next several hours, learning her backstory, with some shallow attempts to draw out some empathy for her character. Once again, there are some pretty engaging moments with her and Lev, etc, but overall, it feels pretty dragged out and I honestly couldn’t care for her. I would have much rather preferred playing as Tommy for the second half of the game, or, you know, have Joel die much later and play a significant portion as him..but whatever...this game fell flat in its most important aspect (Storytelling), and that is a huge disappointment.
Пройдено главное игровое событие 2020 года, а возможно и всего поколения. Ушло 29 часов чистых от и до, плюс часа 2-4 на переигровку некоторых моментов из-за сложности, играл на выживании, это максимальная сложность для первого прохождения. Можно множество лестных слов сказать в адрес игры, но привычное слово для игр от ND подходит больше всего, - шедевр Далее выделю плюсы и минусы игры как обычно, поехали : Плюсы: +Графика, Физика - лучшая картинка в играх, изумительная физика стрельбы, воды, подручных предметов, движения тела, мимики, потрясающие ээфектч, визуал в общем идеален +Геймплей-все, за что вы полюбили первую часть и сверху охапка нововведений, а то, что было отполированно до блеска, отдельно хочется выделить боевую систему, она действительно порывная, опять же благодаря анимациям и поведению искусственного интеллекта +Дизайн(персонажей, локаций и тд.) - здесь действительно работали фанаты своего дело, вылизанная от и до игра, с уникальными локациями которые разнообразные на протяжении всей игры, все на высшем уровне как мы любим +Звук, саунд - ну тут даже и слов не нужно произносить, это вышка друзья, единственный совет это играть в наушниках, непередаваемыц оргазм для ушей) +Сюжет, сценарий и постановочные моменты - оставил самую обсуждаемую тему на последок, эдакая вишенка на тортике), не буду спойлерить, это я считаю преступление по отношению в игре, создателям и игрокам которые не успели ею насладится, единственное, что хочется сказать, так то, что в игре множество поворотов, отличных сцен и логических действий, все объясняется, но всему свое время ±Жестокость-мясо, кровь и ультранасилие, все подаётся на блюдечке с голубой каемочкой) Минусы: - пару лгбт моментов, не сказать бы, что они портят игру, ибо в 30 часах эти 5-10 минут от силы просто растворяются, но если вы от одного намёка начинаете воспламеняться, то ставьте рядом с собой ведёрко водички -технически за всю игру не встретил ни одного бага, но был момент когда союзник не атаковал врага а тупо возле него кружился с мачетой, дело пустяковое, но место этому есть) -хотелось бы мультплеер как в первой части, он был чертовски хорош, но осознавая размер игры, можно и понять почему мультплеер не сделали, иначе игру мы бы с вами увидели в году 2022 небось) - И самый огромный минус, это то, что она закончилась Как итог - эта игра редчайшее явление, такие игры выходят далеко не каждый год, и пропускать её непозволительно. Если вы фанат первой части понравится ли вам вторая? Да! Безусловно! Стоит ли ознакомится с первой частью тем, кто хочет сыграть во вторую, но первую пропустил? Да! Безусловно! Стоит ли игра свои @4.5 или 5к? Да! Безусловно!

Прекрасная работа всех специалистов, которые работали на визуальной частью и звуковым оформлением. Но, то что сделали с сюжетом, историей — это боль.
Absolutely no way near what i exspected the game will be, sionist devil worshipers faith is behind ruining this story, i mean killing joel the best actor in the history of video games to introduce an extremely unlikable freak of nature in a horrible way, that just wipe out all the good memories about the last of us, stopid sionist nel need to be kicked out by sony with 0 hesitation
This game is clearly a masterpiece, but I don't like it. It's like this... there are definitely better games than metal gear solid 2 but that doesn't mean metal gear solid isnt my favourite, the same way in which you can get better dogs than my golden retriever... but I like my golden retriever. This game is clearly a masterpiece... seriously you'd have to be crazy to deny that this game is f****** incredible ...but I don't like it. (Last example
I've waited for this game since I finished the first one in 2013. It was not worth the wait. Don't get me wrong the gameplay was great and the visuals were to but the story was all over the place. The pacing sucked and Abby is the worst character in the game. To be forced to play as this girl for 10 hours is torture. I can't sympathize with her and her dumb decisions. I would write more but I'm tired of giving this game my time and energy. Please don't buy this game it's a waste of time and money.
this game is an absolute MASTERPIECE. Naughty Dog not only took risks, but they showed courage in making you feel uncomfortable and double think who you really think is the good person. gameplay, story, the overall feel is OUTSTANDING. this is next level gaming, perfect way to get us ready for next gen. i LOVED it. GOTY, might be the game of the generation. (ps4)
This game is a gold standard for these so-called movie games,while initially I did have some problems with the story,It clears out If you stick to it till the end,the game does everything it can to make this videogame space a compelling place for a certain message,as usual,as it is an ND game,Graphics,animations and every technical aspect is top notch to say the least. If you are a fan of the first game,I would say that you must play it till the end for the entire context of the story,If you were not a fan of the first game,then make a decision by reading and listening to other reviews,and not just follow this sheep-ish mob-like mentality
Trash game. The Last of Us Part 2 is disappointment for all the fans who waited almost a decade for the continuation of the masterpiece that was the first one. I just don't think this is a real sequel, must be forgotten.
Visually stunning and the music is great. Unfortunately, the Storytelling and was bad. The slow pacing makes this game boring. Maybe if the timeline was linear it would have been more entertaining. My biggest issues with the game are the traversal and in-game sound design. However, the AI is the best AI in any third person shooter game.
Okay so I was really excited to play this game I avoided most of the internet to keep away from spoilers. Now I really wished I had just read about those and made a hard pass on this game. Huge fan the first game. The story and the characters just melded together to make something truly special. However, that does not work with this title. The story and the characters in this game are awful and stupid to the point where I would not be surprised if they did get infected at some point between the first and second and their brain started to deteriorate. Okay without spoilers think of near the end of Batman V Superman where Batman doesn’t kill Superman’s because both of their mothers names were Martha and they suddenly became best friends after fighting each other nearly the whole movie. The only reason this game is not a zero is because the graphics, sound and gameplay are really good. If your in it for the story just go watch a let’s play and save the money for something better like Ghost of Tsushima.
Aun no entiendo que pretendían al sacar al mercado un juego que no cumple con las expectativas de sus usuarios. Un juego que se pasa por la faja los afinidad que sentimos con Joel en la primera entrega. El impulso de idiotez de dar un mensaje progresista no supone un riesgo que hay que aplaudir, no, no se confundan; solo es la nefasta tendencia de querer agradar a todo el mundo menos al jugador, una tendencia que se repite, la mala costumbre de estos tiempos: inculcar su ideología basura, una absurdo mensaje político que ni siquiera es sutil y que queremos mantener lejos de nosotros a la hora de sentarnos frente a nuestra consola. En definitiva, un pésimo juego.

Чтобы не быть голословным честным, скажу, что наиграл первые 2-3 часа, после бросил игру. Коротко по минусам и плюсам: + графика и детали действительно радуют глаз; + приятно увидеть героев предыдущей части; - сценарий, где стараются не развить отношения, а обрывают на конфликте, вводя новых героев, считаю достаточно дешевым ходом, на который отреагируют многие, как и я; - количество цис,транс и прочих гендеров (я лоялен и ничего против не имею, НО!), в условиях пост апокалипсиса, встают перед глазами, хотя не должны являться первым планом, в подобном мире; - геймплей, мне никогда не нравилось как она играется, но мне нравился герой, поэтому для меня "геймплей" и игра закончилась вначале. P.S: Игра не заслуживает оценки - 0, но и шедевром ее назвать мягко говоря язык не повернется. Она заслуживает внимания, если вам интересен мир, но не стоит его, если вы влюблены в главных героев серии.
The Last of Us Part 2 is one of the biggest disappointments of all time. I really loved previous Naughty Dog games. I gave Uncharted 2, for example, a full 10 because it was one of the outstanding games of the PS3 generation. I also enjoyed the first The Last of Us game, mainly based on the characters, story and world. Sadly, I can't say the same thing about the The Last of Us Part 2. The Last of Us Part 2 has destroyed the franchise for me. I did not like what they did with the characters and narrative. And, unfortunately, I never thought the gameplay was all that enjoyable in the first game and it's mostly the same here. It wears thin for me. I just don't find it all that fun. So with a terrible narrative and characters, and average gameplay, all I'm left with is a very pretty game. But that isn't enough to make me want to continue playing a game. Most high end games these days look pretty damn amazing. Games now have to actually be enjoyable if they want to stand out and be held in great esteem by gamers. Another thing I have to mention is that the game has very obvious woke messaging throughout it. I am so tired of being beat over the head constantly with this same political ideology in every form of entertainment media. And given the fact that this game will likely be played by many young people who aren't aware of the propaganda they are being fed it amounts to a kind of brainwashing. I think this is despicable and should be called out. Most gamers do not want any kind of overt modern political messaging in their games. So, in the end I disliked the game for several major reasons: the poor narrative and characters, the average gameplay that I don't get much enjoyment from, and the fact the game is being used as a vehicle for specific political messaging. If Naughty Dog returns to what made games like Uncharted 2 so great I will gladly buy and play their next game. But if they continue down this path of being more concerned about shoehorning their political agenda into a game, instead of making sure it's a great game that can be enjoyed by a wide range of gamers, I will be avoiding their future releases.

capolavoro assoluto, grafica spettacolare, gameplay stellare, storia coraggiosa e eccelsa non posso fare spoiler ma non basatevi sull'hating che il gioco riceve per moda, non mi deluderà fidatevi naughty dog si riconferma uno dei migliori sviluppatori di questa industria



First of all, the graphics and animations are really nice. From a technical point of view, TLoU 2 is a masterpiece. Unfortunately, this good impression of the game is ruined by a completely worst story. Who wrote this ...? Who at Naughty Dog has approved this ...? Many character developments make no sense, especially Ellies. The dealing with the popular characters from part one, is absolutely disrespectful. Joel practically died for nothing. Ellie and most of the characters are unsympathetic awful presented. The identification-Factor with Ellie as main protagonist, is complete written out of the character. The game keeps forcing you to have sympathy for people who don't deserve sympathy. Of course, this goes wrong and is proof of the total failure of the author of the story. As a fan, of part one, i don't want to see or play something like that. All in all, the overall impression that the leaks had indicated has come true. The story is very bad, the most characters are written complete worst. Play it yourself, but don't be surprised if you're disappointed. The game is a slap in the face of every TLoU 1 fan. This example also shows how politically indoctrinated the "professional" media are. If 99% rate a game this way, it is clear that something is wrong. Such occurrences are the reason why I no longer give anything on reviews of magazines. The discrepancy between professional reviews and user reviews shows more than clearly how uncritical and blind the media has become. TLoU 2 is a game for people who have no connection to previous characters and only want to see a perfidious orgy of violence. Then the story full of plot holes works. For fans, TLoU was once a highlight that exceeded all limits of good taste with part 2. This comes out when authors with unhealthy closeness to a certain feminist person ..., miserably written character developments, plot holes without end and a game where the player partou is not allowed to make decisions himself, so that the player definitely eats the supposed message. An example... The game wants to explain what violence makes people do, but I **** on it. I, in Ellie's place, would never have let Abby get away. As a result, the game doesn't work as far as its message goes. Abby's father was a narcissistic **** that an innocent girl wanted to slit open. So why should I be sympathetic to Abby? And you even want to play? It just ignites and doesn't work. I can only speak for myself, but with the kind of Joel's death and from the part with Abby, the game kept losing me. Imagine Shepard from ME, in part 2, in the first third on Omega, cowardly stabbed by a no-name Batharian and then you are supposed to play the killer and fight Miranda and Co. The ME fans would have gone on the barricades just like the TLoU community. I loved the first part, I was really looking forward to the second part and i am now absolutely disappointed with what Naughty Dog has done here. Naughty Dog ran laughing into a circular saw. For me, TLoU died as a franchise and i will no longer buy a possible third part.
Fantastic game and a great addition to the first story. Combat has been greatly expanded upon, the ability to assault enemy positions from above and below is genuinely game changing, as is the ability to dodge, prone and listen on survivor mode. The crafting and weapon upgrades have also been massively improved, offering a wider selection of skills and abilities so you can really mix up the gameplay, it's incapable of becoming stale. Level design Is second to none here, players are heavily rewarded for their exploration and the areas are so big it is one step away from being a true open world. I've lost count of the amount of times i've finished a fight and then saw another piece of terrain I could have used and wanted to re-do the fight again. The story is absolutely fantastic, we can truly see the motivations of each side of the argument and are reminded that there is no such thing as good and bad in this world. Abbys plight is as important as Ellie's but there is also things to be learnt on both sides. Abby is a fantastic character with much the same motivations as Ellie and it's really interesting to see the story play out from both sides. I honestly couldn't recommend this game enough. Fans of the original will find all the same mini interactions and attention to detail that they loved in the first game, mixed in with a satisfying update to the combat and a thrilling story that will leave you bloodthirsty. 10/10 a must play.

Agenda pushing aside, it is truly hurtful the way they treated the characters we grew to love. The only memorable parts of the game were the flashbacks with Joel. They executed those scenes beautifully. It is a horrible story that is standing on the foundation of its predecessor, believing that it has the strength to stand on its own two feet. I mean how can you kill hundreds of people just to let the killer of your best friend go????? Why did she suddenly grow a conscious? Especially for the person who has caused you so much pain? You killed hundreds already? Smh it doesn’t make sense. Teach Drunkman a lesson, don’t buy this game. It truly is a slap in the face, and contains too much symbolism as to how they see the fate of America with their agenda pushing. I left tv to escape this crap, now it’s infiltrated video games.
The last of us 2 has some of the greatest graphics ever but the story from the start did not allow me to have fun with the game and the ending was one of the worst ever


This game is very old gameplay mechanics, seems to play to the first assassin's creed is not a 2020's game. Ugly animation, ugly fight combat, boring stealth section crafting is the same of the first game ..........

Not much more to say that hasn't been said. It's not that I didn't like the main ideas for the story per se (for instance, I found the "incident" in the beginning of the game quite intriguing, in the sense that it could lead to very interesting places story-wise), however the execution of these ideas was terrible. And the ending.. my god, what a waste! In addition, I found the gameplay boring and -by the end- exhaustingly repetitive. Same loop, same animations, again and again and again, without a meaningful and impactful way of gameplay progression. And what's up with that square button, seriously? What were they thinking?? All in all, this is a narrative-driven game with a terrible narrative that on the top of being terrible drags on for too long, with a gameplay loop which is ok I guess, but it ends up being repetitive and tedious. On the positive aspect, the graphics, animations, audio and art direction in general are great, so.. two points for Slytherin!
nice graphics, loved the work they've done with infected. poor game design and storytelling. I had a feeling like I'm playing remake of the first part. Every level was so predictable and similar to part 1. I won't even talk about this games propaganda. Thats a different srory. Guys just keep it away from games, please.
Buenas a todos, un 7... porque direis? es muy facil a nivel visual el juego es excelente, no se puede negar a nivel jugable casi excelente, lastima del abuso de spamear cuadrado a todas las cosas a nivel de historia es... PARA MI horrible, el hecho de matar a Joel de buenas a primeras a manos de Abby y luego tengan el valor de forzarme a jugar con ella para que entienda que es "victima" de las circumstancias.... desde el momento en que se mata a Joel ya sabes de sobras que Abby no te va a gustar, es mas cuando la volvia usar, lo primero que hice es dejar que me mataran como 20 veces. pero para mi el punto clave es el final, el hecho de que Abby y lev sean capturados y luego Ellie vaya a por ellos, nose, chirria demasiado, es como si hubieran hecho un primer final (trozo de la granja) y luego de golpe digan, sabes que? que no, que vamos a sacarnos este final, con el "gran" combate final entre las dos chicas, hagamos creer que por fin Ellie va a eliminar a Abby, aparezca un flash de Joel, y decia no matarla. como he dicho antes, PARA MI un insulto de historia, pa que cojones haces todo lo que haces, si luego no cumples con lo que te has propuesto? ademas que para mi, el final bueno lo tiene Abby, que sale viva, con Lev y se piran, mientras que Ellie que le queda? dos dedos menos, con lo cual no puede tocar la guitarra (hola? has provado a hacerlo con la izquierda?????) por ello la conexion con Joel se muere, Dina y JJ ya no estan, con ello a perdido a su amor, y el hecho de ser madre junto a su amada, apra que? para nada, un desastre de viaje por parte de Ellie que no tiene ni pies ni cabeza. en fin, que directo pa game que se va este juego y asi no pierdo tanto dinero
The game is great. Definitely not worse than the 1st one. Anyone saying otherwise is just here for trolling. Sure the gameplay is a bit repetitive, but then so is the 1st game and let's face it, the story of the first one is nothing special either, it's a long journey which in the end turns out to be for nothing. If you're not a troll and you liked the first one, you will like this one. Don't miss out on it because a large number of trolls, Xbox fanboys and Sony-haters reviewed bombed this game with zeroes.
Ужасная игра, насыщенная феминизмом, ЛГБТ и т.д. Просто ад для фанатов первой части. Во всем в игре виноваты белые гетересексуалы. Оптимизация на консолях плохая, история тоже. Один балл за симулятор гитары.
Incredibly terrible story, literally writes the original characters into being morons and villains to push a narrative. That narrative being "revenge cycle is bad". They take this to an extremely stupid place, with Joel dying and Ellie murdering all of Abby's(child of an NPC in first game that golf clubs Joel) crew, only to suddenly realized revenge isnt worth it after Tommy is shot, she loses everything to include 2 fingers and already killed people far more innocent then Abby to just let her live. It then ends on a weird note that Joel is evil and it's better to let someone who murdered essentially you father live because revenge is bad even though you already killed like a 100 people for that revenge.

This game is the best on the market - imo. Storytelling is next level. Graphics: top - especially for this (7 years) old console Performance: very smooth and fluid gameplay Gameplay: one of the best - the AI has improved a lot and I have not seen this mechanics in any other game 10/10 without any doubt! ND delivered a masterpiece.
Gold gameplay and good graphics, story is complete garbage, best character was victim of a cliche story. Not sure what they were thinking. I still give it a 5 while half way through the game. Lets see the end...
This game didn't need a sequel. The ending of the first part was perfectly fine. The story is absolutely horrible. The leaks were right. What's up with the ending? You try to kill Abby but you suddenly feel guilty? What's up with that? Then there's the characters..Oh boy, they are so forgetable. Some of them feel forced into the story just to push an agenda. Then there's the actual killing, why does it have to be so gory? Are they trying to be edgy? It's not Carmageddon or Mortal Kombat. Overall a terrible experience. What a waste of money.
Do yourself a favour and skip this game.. let The last of us end after part 1. You will play 2 hours of this game and then ruined.. no pay off at the end either.. a game heavily reliant on story has one very bad story!! Its disingenuous of NaughtyDog to still sell this game featuring Joel!!
Gameplay, graphics and the voice actors really did a good job in making this game, so kudos to them, the writing however, SUCKS as the second game completely ruins the characters in the first game and we were forced to play as the killer who kills Joel for the HALF OF THE GAME, and then Ellie SPARES HER IN THE END when she already sacrificed so much just to get to her. This game is not The Last of Us 2, it doesn't have the right to be called The last of us, for me it's just a fanfiction badly written by the bad directors to push their political views through games.
Passed the game with pleasure! The gameplay, graphics and sound are at the highest level.. But! The plot twists were very disappointing and the emphasis was on non-traditional relationships.. In General, only 9 points, apparently the game of the year will still be Ghost of Tsushima


Terrible story it is, Joel and Ellie are dead and sex scene quite not good, quite double standard for Sony censored other Japanese games on non-nudity bikini while their exclusive get free pass
Great Graphics, better gameplay, very bad stealth, great voice acting, Since this is a story driven game, the story is very very bad and so i can't give a higher score
This is not canon. When the game is only inspired by ideolgically possessed radical virtue-signalers, it isnt a story in the normal sense. Therefore, the last of us never had a sequel
Part 1 gefiel mir schon. Part 2 gefällt mir auch sehr. Kampfsystem etc kaum verändert. In manchen Situation sogar vereinfacht, sodass man das Spiel fast ohne Waffen durchspielen kann. Aber dennoch, solche Spiele bzw. die Entwickler dahinter müssen unterstützt werden damit in Zukunft weitere tolle, bessere Spiele rauskommen.

This game is good, but only that. Gameplay and graphics are great, but plot is one big mistake. Joel died like a dog, Ellie didn't kill Abby, because... I don't know she just let her go. I'm not a hater, I'm just disappointed TLOU fan. This game is just leftside propaganda, and I'm not homophobic or something like that I'm only sad, because of that the big franchise is turn into propaganda like SW. "I wish that things were different, but they ain't".


As pessoas esperam um final feliz, como se a vida fosse um conto de fabas. Estou jogando o game pela segunda vez e que obra de arte. Tudo o que foi feito no primeiro jogo esta sendo extremamente bem retratado e fiel aqui. Eu posso admitir que não fiquei feliz em ver a morte do Joel, mas foi tão impactante quanto ver a morte da Sarah. Todas as ações realizadas no primeiro jogo repercutiram aqui. E um fato bastante curioso: é revelado o sobrenome de Joel que é Miller, e o significado deste nome em seus pontos positivos e negativos mostra totalmente a personalidade da pessoa retratada no jogo. Como eu disse no início, o jogo é uma obra prima que hora o primeiro jogo e expande ainda mais o universo criado anos atrás.
What a waste. I live in Europe, got the game earlier than US. I must say that I haven't seen any spoilers before I played. The story in 2 is so much worse. Characters are not themselves it's so weird playing this. After the first couple of hours I almost had no motivation to play it anymore. I just treated it like an uncharted game, which says a lot when this is TLOU2 we're talking about. Loved the first one, really bored out of my shoes with the second. What a waste!

Its is a trouble, a huge one, this game does some damage to the best characters written in the first part, Joel has some written issues, the story doesn't hold at all, stands for some "free politics by the face" in a "survival game", some of the control movements inside gameplay also are really bad when we try to jump or aim with some melee weapon, we expected more than this, especially talking about the story, 0 indicators about the future of this world: any survivors outside the country? possibiility of a cure? etc. The best things are the environment and graphics.
Лучшая игра 8 поколения. Поздравляю Нила Дракманна и сони с хооошими продажами. Так держать!!! Жду 3 часть
Absolutely rubbish and should have never been made, what a complete disgrace to the first one, basically no improvements to the game play, and the worst story ever told, and more dyke nonsense, gross.
Gameplay-wise, this game is amazing. Graphics-wise, this game is amazing. The world is beautiful and you can tell the devs put a lot of time into making it a better game than the first. I can agree that in most cases this game should deserve a very high rating. Unfortunately, the developers have decided that anyone who was invested in the first game and everything that took place during it can just go kill themselves. After everything that happened in the first game and the player having to come to terms with the decision Joel made at the end of the game, killing him off right at the start of this game because "his decision was wrong" is a massive kick in the balls to anyone who grew attached to both Joel and Ellie. It's like the devs are saying "you liked the story we told in the first game, so get **** you weren't supposed to like it." Even after seeing all the leaks, I wanted to give this game a chance assuming that Joel's death would happen towards the middle or at least a third into the game and be a turning point for the story. Unfortunately, it happens within the first two hours. This completely killed any enjoyment I had had in this game and ruined my motivation to keep on playing it, regardless of the fact that everything else in this game is absolutely award winning.
What a disaster of a story. I have to give cred to the environmental artist and level designers. Its gorgeous but the story made me feel so disappointed...
У меня нет слов что бы описать эту игру. Она вызывает целую гамму чувств. Здесь все сделано с такой любовью, что одна глава по окружению и наративу может стоит целой игры от обычной студии. Я только в середине пути (а может даже до середины не дошел) и все что я вижу достойно только самой высокой оценки. You are amazing guys. Good luck and inspiration.
The gameplay and graphics are the only thing I will give any points towards. The fact that they bastardize and retcon the story from TLOU1 in INEXCUSABLE. Characters completely forget the knowledge they display in the first game, then through plot induced stupidity, act completely out of character. Both Ellie and Joel are victims of this heinous betrayal of common sense. At no point did i feel sympathy towards Abby and every time I had to play as her I rushed as much as possible to get to Ellie, even though she continues to do more and more out of character actions. For a game that constantly beats the concept of "REVENGE/MURDER IS BAD" and then FORCES you to murder people without any choice is not excusable. On top of it, the game trailers and promises from the dev's are NO WHERE to be found. We were told that you would not have to harm an animal yet, you kills dogs like they were fodder. Scenes showing Joel were ripped out of the game and replaced with another disposable male character (Jesse) whom also gets killed off. While the gameplay is fun, the story makes the game a complete chore. If you skip the cut scenes and any lore, it makes the game even worse and you are constantly reminded of the garbage you are playing.
Loved most everything about it, from the story, to the mechanics, to the pacing. Character design is the best I've ever seen on this gen. The world is beautiful and enjoyable to explore. I laughed, I cried, I screamed a few times.
If u loved the first one stay away from TLOU2. Everything u liked and loved about these characters is **** on . They act out of character and are made unlikable just 2 push the plot and introduce a new playable character(which she sucks BTW). Besides the fact this character model looks ridiculous there is no setup to make u care about this person at all. Just because we dont like the games story and new character were being called bigots and phobes when all we wanted was a good ending to some of our favorite characters in any media is sad.

horrible story telling force romance between ellie and diana ( not because they are gay but the romance is literally forced. for a good example of amazing gay romance i can name life is strange before the storm ) a lot of story has been changed from the trailers and trailers were literally false advertisements. the dialogs feels super cringe and soulless. a lot of disturbing sexual content in names of ( normalizing) only positive point that the game has is literally the atmosphere and graphics nothing more. I'm more than disappointed


The art, graphics, atmosphere, and attention to detail are all stunning. There are so many things this game got right only to be drowned out by the writing and character choices. I'm not review bombing and I'm not a bot like people would have you believe. I am just extremely disappointed with the horrendous story telling this game delivers. It completely ruined the game. The game almost seems to be directed and written by different people who have completely different views on what the first game was, what it was about, and the justification for the things that the characters did in that setting. This game took a turn basically the way GoT did. The first seasons were well fleshed out and thoughtful then in the last few seasons it seems like a completely different entity. This is exactly the way TLOU2 feels while playing. Its the same "show" just in essence just completely different from what came before it.
No me gustó porque tengo que jugar como la asesina de Joel cuál si fuera buena y además putear casi de muerte a Elli vaya mierda de historia y al final ni la mata 20 horas esperando a matarla y la deja viva vaya decepción debieron dejar que uno eligiera si matarla o no estoy decepcionado
It's okayish. Not a 10/10 like the reviewers all say. Definitely not a 10/10. story is pretty ass, gameplay didnt evolve in the slightest in comparison to the first game. They basically only added jumping and proning. The ending is absolute horrible
i play videogames for the storytelling, this was the worst story i have ever seen, it is so inconsistent with the first game and just doesnt make any sense. its not that the story isnt up to my taste, its plain bad writting. there is a reason why people hated the last season of game of thrones, when there is such a build up from the previous seasons you cant fail this hard at the story. you need to give better conclusions that fit the characters. you cant make a character like seldon from the big bang theory act like lenard for a season and expect for the fans of the show to like it. thats what naughty dog did with this game, where the MAIN cast feels out of character for the whole storyline. there isnt any logic behind the action of the protagonists.
It was...meh. I got through it, but I had to force myself to get through it. It kind of felt like getting yelled at by my mom when I was a kid. And the pressure to give it a high rating just because it's 'inclusive is' **** You want to play a good game that'll suck you in for hours and make time melt away? Go elsewhere.

Jogo tecnicamente mais bem feito da geração. Gráfico e jogabilidade impressionantes , é muito divertido jogar contra vários inimigos e ver Ellie ofegante, vermelha, suando, detalhes que passam batido na maioria dos jogos mas que aumentam a imersão causada por tlou2. Pequenos detalhes na história poderiam ser modificados , porém não é algo que afete ao meu ver a experiência geral
Graphyc and gameplay are perfect, the level design is eons superior to the first game, the history is very difficult to accept, its objectively a well written history, but its not made to make anybody happy, the game does not try to give any satisfaction to the player, and thats just a design choice, not a bad thing. the game isnt for everyone, but for me is the best game on the ps4.
this game is a joke and an offence to all it's true fans... the story is rubbish the characters in this game are a cheap woke trick ,it's sad and pathetic to even see this happen to one of my favorite games of all times..... the gameplay is alright and it just looks like a PS4 game the art style is pretty neat but not groundbreaking i mostly play games for it's story not for visuals and graphics so i was very disappointing with the direction they took this game .... such a shame from now on i will rethink 2 -3 times before even thinking buying another game from naughty dog....
Wow was my expectation subverted. Looks beautiful, great music and voice acting. Same tense yet stodgy gameplay seven years on. You can now dodge, jump and crawl. Very very poor story and treatment of Ellie and Joel. The character growth and story were the strongpoint of the first game but this time round; Ellie gets broken, develops PTSD and a twitch, loses everything; Joel, who could smell an ambush in the first game, walks into an ambush, with no gun and tells everyone his name, dies a pointless death of plot contrivance. Abby (and her freakish arms, who took ALL the steroids? Abby did, Abby took ALL the steroids in Cordyceps world) is an **** and a psychopath, kills her WLF friends and comrades for Lev/Lilly, someone she just met. Tommy, who founded Jackson in a post apoplectic wilderness, gets emasculated; encounters Abby 3 times, gets 1.knocked out, 2. punched thru a barrier and 3.shot in the head. He ends up divorced with a limp and a twitch. I connected with Owen, Abby's ex, who was ready to leave all the killing and his pregnant girlfriend behind but still wanted weird angry sex with Abby and her enormous arms. (She reminded me of an East German shot putter. One for the kids there) Everyone else is killed, often brutally, except Abby, who Ellie should have but didn't. No development, no growth, no redemption, no questions, just violent death after death and no remorse. Two spoilt orphan girls with Daddy issues making dozens and dozens of other orphans. Mr Druckman, you're not as smart as you like to think you are. I will not be buying anything that you are associated with in the future. The big lesson is not revenge is bad, m,kay, but rather don't take your fanbase for granted to push a social agenda. I'm looking at you Star Wars, Doctor Who, Harley Quinn, Terminator Dark nonsense etc etc etc...... And as for revenge stories; Bladerunner, Red Dead Redemption, Conan the Barbarian, Carrie, the Illiad by Homer, Hamlet, The Count of Monte Cristo, Zorro, Oldboy, Fists of Death, Sin City, Kill Bill, The Gladiator, True Grit, The Princess Bride, Middle Earth Shadow of Mordor, Metal Gear Solid 5, Dishonoured, Assassins Creed 2, Max Payne, Legacy of Cain, God of War (2005), Revenant, The Darkness, Death Wish (all of them, the clues in the title), John Wick 1, 2, and probably 3, Django Unchained, Unforgiven, Get Carter, Mad Max, Taken, Desperado, Gangs of New York, The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and Pale Rider (one of my favourites). How is this story a masterpiece? I felt empathy with all the wronged, none tried to cheaply manipulate my emotions to empathise with the killer and most had a clear resolution i.e. Roy clearly sees the value of life when he saves Deckard. It's all been done before, a lot better.
This game was poorly written, undercuts the significance of the original characters that we fans had come to love, and was a major departure from the narratives that made the first game very pervasive. All that combined with relatively mediocre monotonous gameplay mechanics, made it a drag to get through and largely upsetting through most of the game. Unlike the first game there are no silver linings throughout the story that greatly contributed to the enjoyment of the original Last of Us, as it also carried a lot of weight. There's little to no feel good moments past the first hour or so of the game; all melancholic or upsetting. Combine this with new largely un-relatable characters, it's easy to wish they didn't make this game and left the first game to it's own. This game would have been better suited as either a spin-off or a standalone title; it's really that different from it's origins.

I am extremely disappointed and quite frankly really upset with the direction that ND has gone with, with this game. For so long I and we have been waiting to play a sequel to the TLOU a master piece of a game! TLOU2 comes no where close. First off the good stuff, the graphics are outright the best I have seen which to be honest was expected considering how good the graphics are in the first game(when it came out) and the technology used to behind it. The game play and combat mechanics is still really good but there really isn't much difference here from the first game. There is only some small minor things... you would think after 7 years there would be some decent improvement or changes. The Story, the single most important element of the game - imo is a horrible experience to play through, one horrific bad s*** crazy thing after another. This story butchers the majority of characters especially the ones we have come to love from the first game. OK... I didn't like what they had done with certain characters but with one character in particular and the whole shocking scene with this said character had effected me quite negatively and from here on out I kinda had to FORCE my myself to play and finish the game(hoping there would be some good). Never in my life have I had to force myself to finish a game. We are then forced to play most of the story/game as a character who for me... well...hated(and probably for a lot of other people too). Playing as this now "hated" character makes it so much harder to play the game. The game has instantly lost its fun and interest factor. Poor character development... I won't elaborate to keep this review spoiler free. TLOU was and still is a fun, interesting, thrilling game to play and even though its 7 years later its still not bad to look at(graphics wise). The game has set the bar.... with the exception of the graphics TLOU2 however does not live up to that purely because of the continuation of horrible story events, poor character development and playing as a hated character through out!
Nice graphics, good graphics, and good gameplay but the problem comes with a Bad story.bad character development and which ends up being a complete insult to the original game and loaded with sjw agenda. we want games, not politics.
This game broke my heart. Graphics and Sound are great but a story driven game with a bad story. Sorry i cant give it much better than a 4. I am a huge fan of the first game but this one fell short on so many levels. I guess im not smart enough to understand it and i need the moral gatekeepers to put me in check.
El juego es un 10 técnicamente hablando, visualmente es de lo mejor hecho a o largo de la historia, la banda sonara se repite con la calidad que ya sabemos nos ofrece Gustavo y el Gameplay supera al del 1 por mucho, el botón de esquivar añadido le da una intensidad increíble al combate cuerpo a cuerpo. Hablando sobre las quejas relacionadas a la "Diversidad" que hay dentro del juego, cabe mencionar que se ofrecen momentos de todo tipo, sin embargo ni un solo segundo hay algo forzado en la trama, todo lo incluyeron de forma sutil y natural. Con respecto al corazón de The Last of Us, que es su historia, mientras jugaba sentía que se quedaba corta en comparación al 1, pero al terminarlo me di cuenta que no es así, no es tanto la típica historia de venganza, el cliché que algunos sienten, es en completo una historia de perdón y redención. Dejaron atrás la historia de buscar la cura para salvar al mundo. Joel durante el 1 terminó con toda la esperanza y la "Luz" que quedaba, y al mismo tiempo destruyó a Ellie en el proceso al quitarle el motivo de su vida. Joel necesitaba el perdón de Ellie. En el juego se muestra a un Joel desgastado, que se ve a leguas esta sufriendo por las decisiones que ha tomado y las cuales sin embargo volvería a tomar. La gente cree que se "despersonalizó" a Joel, por el simple hecho de bajar la guardia, cuando en realidad Joel pierde su personalidad en el 1 en el momento en el que Sarah muere y es cuando conoce a Ellie que empieza a recuperar su personalidad, tanto es así que termina confiando rápidamente en Henry y su hermano, por ejemplo. Aquí ya lleva un par de años viviendo relativamente tranquilo y es Tommy, quien los delata ante los lobos... Lo que hicieron con Joel es algo muy arriesgado y difícil de aceptar, pero al final es un recurso realista y doloroso. Ellie necesitaba perdonar la vida de Abby para poder continuar. Muchas veces es muy fácil juzgar las decisiones de las personas estando como espectador, pero como ya es común en los videojuegos, hay que colocarse por completo en los zapatos de Ellie y Abby para comprenderlas. Abby lleva a cabo su deseada venganza, algo que lleva planeando por años, y es lo que primeramente arruina su relación con Owen, sin embargo no conoce el precio de la venganza hasta después de llevarla a cabo, a diferencia de Ellie que esta pagando el precio de la venganza mientras la busca. En esta historia no hubo ganadores, solo personas que lo perdieron todo en distintos momentos por las decisiones que tomaron. El mensaje que me dejo el juego es que, en un mundo donde todo puede terminar tan abrupta y rápidamente como ese, no está permitido guardar resentimientos con los seres queridos. Ellie tiene la oportunidad de haber intentado perdonar a Joel durante 2 años, pero nunca lo hizo hasta un día antes de perderlo, eso es lo que la atormenta, es lo que entiende en el momento final y es por ello que perdona a Abby, para poder seguir con su vida. El juego nos ofrece una lección, una lección aprendida muy a la mala. Me parece excelente...
Falta de ritmo, una descabellada y plana historia de venganza desmedida. Amparada por la mayor tragedia perpetrada en la historia de los videojuegos. El mas claro ejemplo de como destruir el legado de lo que para mi es uno de los mejores juegos de la historia. Joel no cometió ninguna atrocidad, EL mundo en el que el vivía, ya estaba destruido y de la humanidad ya no quedaba nada que salvar. Ya estaba herida de muerte por sus miserias. Pero una vez mas el destino le quería arrebatar aquello que mas quería. Y con la duda de si los Luciérnagas, serian capaces, aun teniendo los conocimientos necesarios para conseguir la tan ansiada vacuna y con los limitados y cochambrosos medios de los que disponían. La elección estaba clara. El padre de Abby estaba en un quirófano custodiado por un ejercito de Luciérnagas. La proporción era mas que desfavorable, y aun así, Joel lo consiguió, y no por que ellos no trataron de matarlo. Abby es un despropósito, la historia es plana , el ritmo lento y pesado. Desaparecieron las escaleras, las rampas, los puzzles, la genialidad. Como hubiera sido este juego, si hubierais dado la libertad real de elegir, explorar diferentes caminos, ira, o perdón. A lo largo de toda la cinta, la posibilidad real de no matar a nadie. Eso si que habría sido elegante y digno de un goty, le habría dado sentido real al mensaje que queríais transmitir
The graphics are amazing and the updates to the combat system made the game far more enjoyable. An update to the crafting system would have been nice, I did like that they gave Ellie a pocket knife instead of a shiv like Abby had. The story is messy. I actually didn’t mind playing as Abby, I thought that arc was fairly well done and enjoyed how it mirrored (slightly) Joel’s experience with Ellie in the first game. I was fairly irritated when I started Abby’s story and realized I had to upgrade all of her weapons and skills, felt like I was starting over. After playing Ellie’s story for like 10 hours I was frustrated to feel like I was starting at zero again. I thought the AI was terrible, I played in moderate, then switched to hard when I found moderate was too easy. Only game that I thought had worse AI in the last year was Days Gone (seriously that AI is trash) and I still loved it so AI isn’t a huge contributing factor for me. I was genuinely nervous when I first encountered the Scars, but after playing against them for awhile I grew bored with them since it was almost identical to the Wolves. I get they were there for the story, but why introduce a second group if they were just going to be as easy to overcome as the one we are already fighting? Should have made them a little less predictable and more aware of their surroundings so sneaking up on them was more difficult. Also, I expected a little more out of their story, they were alluding to the leader who died and really did nothing with her except say that this isn’t what she wanted, people took her teachings and twisted them to fit their agenda. Yeah it’s a play on Christianity and religion, we get it humans make everything bad and twist things to make them fit our ideals, but this is a video game I don’t want to be lectured to about how much humans suck. (I’m not a religious person by the way, just in case anyone thinks I’m mad they seemed to be casting judgement on Christians.) Im in the boat of I hated the ending, I saw it coming from a mile away though. There was no way they would kill Ellie in the same game they killed Joel, that would literally destroy any chance of a 3rd game selling well. I also couldn’t see Abby dying as they seemingly set her up to be a part of a 3rd installment with the fireflies and based on her “character development” that they had her go through they had a lot more planned for her. Overall I didn’t hate the game, but I didn’t like it nearly as much as I liked the first one. Had they not taken the “moral of the story” route instead of the realistic route for the ending I probably would have given it a 5 instead. If a 3rd installment is made I probably won’t be preordering it, I’ll wait for the user reviews to come out a few days after release.
Not enough ammo on mid level + challenge to make game enjoyable; always low, frequently totally run out. Two main characters extremely flawed sociopaths. Unsatisfying as both loose everything in the end. Director didn’t know how to end the game so tacked on an obvious second ending to a confused and disjointed story. Too much politics, just want entertainment not more controversy. Sorry I bought it. Won’t buy another Naughty Dog. LoU1 Lucy first try. Waited years for LoU2 but only got a poor stepchild.

O choro dos haters está lindo! Esse é um jogo para gente grande, gente antenada no mundo que vivemos, que ama poesia, música, diálogo, roteiro, uma boa trama, e acima de tudo não é machista, homofóbico ou estúpido (que tem problema com a sexualidade de uma personagem de vídeo game, ou quer que toda história gire em torno do seu pensamento doentio) . The Last Of Us parte 2 não deve nada ao seu antecessor, TUDO foi melhorado, quer você goste ou não...
Great graphics, motion capturing, background design, and voice acting. Props to the Naughty Dog team for that. However, it is a horrible story that unravels any real point of caring about the characters later on. It's the last jedi and game of thrones season 8 again, which is not a compliment Neil. They along with this game, divided a solid fan base by "subverting expectations". If only Amy and Bruce were still on the team, they would have kept your 'creativity" restrained. No point in making a third game unless this "story" is just a dream or it's entirely new characters in a different area. This franchise is forever marred, which is unfortunate sadly.

Pros: -One of the best looking games I’ve ever played -Level design -Shootouts/Melee Cons: -Second half is a snooze fest -Only one stealth kill animation -Story is lackluster -No upgradeable storage for ammo and most supplies I really enjoyed the first 7 or 8 hours, I loved exploring Seattle when first arriving and checking things off the map. Unfortunately that is short lived and there are no more open map sections of the game. The stealth system in the game is ok, but the stealth takedown is SO repetitive, how in the hell did they only give each character 1 stealth takedown animation? Not being able to do a stealth takedown with your melee weapon is a total bummer as well. The whole Abby play through was such a drag and I felt most of it was a pointless time filler and would of been better off as a dlc. Overall pretty bummed but it definitely has a couple great moments. Wait for it to go on sale.
Just felt depressing playing through this, like a spit in the face of the fans of the first game. Gameplay was pretty much the same so if you liked it in the first game you will like it here. However if you liked the first game I would not advice you to get this one, especially after the false advertising that were focused on getting fans of Joel and Ellie back. We all know what happens to Joel and Ellie just gets the short end of the stick without spoiling too much. This game deserved better
There's not much I can say that hasn't been said yet, but honestly, what was that? This is the worst writing i've seen since Game of Thrones Season 8. 10/10 would want my money back
This game changed my life, its the goty for 2020 and the best game of the gen. Next gen graphics, gameplay is just one of the best in the game history and im in love with the characters story, tysm sony for allow us to play this game!
Крутая игра и достойное продолжение первой части, графика супер, отлично реализован режим Стелс, сюжет держит в напряжении постоянно
La jugabilidad impecable, ppero vaya manera de estropear la historia, tuve que jugar para sacar mis conclusiones, peroes de dar asco cierto puntos de la historia, una manera ridicula por asi decir de matar a Joel, ya esperaba que iba a morir, pero matarlo como un cualquiera,vamos, y el final, peor de lo que esperaba. 1 punto por la jugabilidad y solo eso vale, al que quiera jugar por la historia vas a tener asco al inves de emocion, lo mejor, ver la historia por los youtubers primero, antes de comprar el juego.



wow what a dumpster fire this game is. Exactly the opposite in story that I as a fan wanted. Lets kill joel in the first 2 hours. Lets utilize FALSE ADVERTISING to trick and steal money from people who were so excited for the continuation of ellie and Joel. I'm angry, at the trickery. I'm angry at the failure to gain depths beyond these paper thin filler characters. The retcon of abbie. Terrible terrible terrible. I do not care about graphics and game-play. graphics are fantastic. Game-play, meh. ever play the first? there you go. The accessibility options are phenomenal. The story is utter hot garbage. Not even close to being enjoyable. I don't need to have fun to play a game, but i damn sure need enjoyment from the product. This was a failure, and it is the last time i ever support naughty dog. Let me be clear, I DO NOT CARE ABOUT ANYONES GENDER OR SEXUALITY. Ellie became an idiot in her choices based around joel and a few others but never due to her sexuality or gender. Joel became a fool, because plot demanded it. Abbie is a terribly written, horribly implemented retcon that deserves every intentional death she is put through. I don't care about lev. Oh your trans. Ok. good for you. I still don't care about you, you are paper thin and getting on my nerves. NOT because you are trans, but because you are a terribly written character. This game could have used these elements in the story for a fascinating heart wrenching tale that was masterfully woven. Instead Neil Drukman took a big fat dump and titled it, the last of us part 2. This game is a zero for me, but i give it 2 points, 1 for accessibility, one for graphics. Everything else can ESOD. Let me also clarify, i always turn music off in games, and i cannot stand when it is force implemented. it robs a game of immersion IMO. That applies to me. The musical score is terrible, i do not enjoy it. That is due to my musical taste. That is not to say that it is not composed well or by a talented musician. I find it to also be hot garbage. Therefore let it be known, my review does not reflect it in score, i give it a complete pass over as unfavorable as it does not apply to my style of gaming. It aggravates and agitates me causing me to lose interest even further when forced. You may enjoy it. I do not. TLDR: Neil Drukman has the tummy rumblies and shoots a steaming pile all over the fans of TLOU with a terribly written dumpster fire that is TLOU PART 2, and not because of gender politics or agenda, while it is there, that is not the reason this game is terrible, the writing is.
Diversão e emoção são a definição para esse jogo, gráficos impressionantes, uma mecânica lisa e fluente, superou o primeiro em vários aspectos
The story disrespects joel and they let us play as Joel's killer and now they are trolling usGame theory said that the vaccine could not work because it's not a virus it's a fungus and they would have to study the things that eliles body producesThe vaccine would have never workedJoel did nothing wrong Ellie would have died for nothing because the vaccine would not make a cure it just would never worked they should have studied the things that make Ellie immune
Lol people review bombing this game arent that bright Espessially since the game just came out doubt all those people beat a 20-30 hour game in under 3 hours at least digitally, Look Regardless of your opinion on the games Story direction this is NOT under a 9/10 when you look at all the other qualities of this game. This game has the best Graphics in this. Console generation,very very very good Gameplay even better then the first game, The detail is stunning,, characters are acted out phenomenal and The music and atmosphere beats out even the first one. Ik ik i rated it a 10 which is just as disingenuous as the Morons review bombing it but trying to balance out those BS reviews, 12 hours in for me and the game is easily 9/10 material it just is better then the first one on all aspects cept Story so far and personally i think the story is great but First games story was def superior imho. Dont listen to the haters and At least try this game out cause its a truly special and awesome game and a ton of fun with the amazing Hand to hand combat and stealth mechanics, Gunplay is epic also. I highly recommend it!
The last of us part 2 fails truly on bring me to the immersion, I do not feel represented on this, it’s like seen a movie that I don’t like the script.
Отличная игра, уже наиграл 6+ часов, и получаем с женой уйму удовольствия. особенно улыбают отзывы людей которые на английском писали тут что прошли игру и она гавно спустя 3-4 часа после релиза игры =))) КЛОУНЫ =)
OK now i know why i should had watched the spoilers but i did like the first one so i waited. You know how in the witcher 3 you could decide with who you want to have sex or just not have sex at all and focus in the game. Well in this game get ready because if you are ready or not, your eyes are going to get F when you see how the character that you use(abby) is going to get it if you wanted or not. However, the enviroment is incredible so it gets one point for it. If you want to play a game where try to do the best but still you get F all the time then play this game. In my case i am going to leave it where is at and i just prefer to wait for the complete spoilers and not spend more hours playing this thing.
This game was something else in graphics but the story was so terribly made, it got me at bigot sandwiches in the beginning telling the old white guy, current politics in a game is just
This game is not as horrible as others have tried to make it seem to be, but it is also not the holy grail of a generation, or even of the year. The graphics are definitely worthy of praise, but the game itself is marred by a strong laser beam focus on identity politics. If you liked the first one, then this one will be a polarizing game for you. It is not true to all of the previous characters, and has a horribly disjointed story that at many times seems forced. The pacing is off in regards to the big plot points, and they should have spent more time getting the timeline of the story to make sense, instead of going for sensational clips. The controls are also clunky, and the accessibility menu, while a great addition, ends up becoming a glorified cheat menu, with a lot of options that make it so easy a baby can beat it.
Great graphics and gameplay, but if you are a last of us fan, this games story will ruin everything for you. And from a game where the story matters the most, it's a big disappointment
The good. Amazing to look at, really how did they get this out of a PS4 pro, cannot fault it. The sound design is great, a few repeated lines that keep been said but still great for this age of tech. Animations are great/fluid. The OK The acting is a mixed bag, it's well done but the script is at times is cringe. The BAD This is the big bad that destroyers all the other good work, the story is painfully bad. By that I mean its The Last Jedi bad (ok some like that film) There are decisions made in-game that are "wtf, did they forget about character behavior/knowledge in the 1st game" plot holes, side stories where I was let saying out loud "Why are you making us play this long side story... it's crap" then the wonderful swap where you play as a person you basically hate....and this is not even mentioning a worse death than Luke in The Last Jedi. I get people need to die in games and films, to motivate others, give a reason for their actions, but write it well and in such a way that even those who disagree with it, still see the reason and can understand it. After about 15 hrs I was just playing to finish it, get it done, sadly it got worse near the end but by then I had given up and just wanted it finished so I could get it on Ebay. I just do not get how they messed this up so badly.
This game is an absolute waste of time and money. Terrible story and terrible new uninteresting characters. It's a disgrace for the first game that came out 7 years ago.
I have looked forward to this game for years and they have betrayed the characters and fan base for forced diversity that was not needed or wanted. And completely ruined the franchise as so many have come before forcing politics into entertainment to pander to the left.
I played for 27 hours.. Was the longest 27 hours of my life, 27 hours I will never get back. This game doesn’t have the emotional investment of the first game, neither the writing quality!! The plot doesn’t make any sense. It’s feel like naughty dogs sacrifice the main lead of the first game for LGBTQ+ inclusion. Well, wasn’t a good representation after all. Ellie didn’t have a moral compass what so ever like in the first game, a Big shift I may add. She was the innocent factor in the last of us 2013, now she is just a strong and powerful woman that nothing can stop her killing spree? 2/10 for the polished game and peace.

Tlou is about the story, and here they give us a renvenge plot full of clichés, yes It looks beautiful and if you only care about graphics then you should play it. The characters are awfull they never seem to learn from past experiences and the plot just keep going based on terrible decisions made by the characters. And on top of everything the ending completely fails to justife the reason of being of this sequel.
I was such a fan of last of us 1......this story is just such garbage it ruined the whole game. its also way 2 short of a game for 60$. combat is clunky and repetitive, dodging is mainly quick time events. the story ruins EVERYTHING, not sure what they were thinking. any reviewer who gave this above a 5 is a paid hack shill, there is no way this trash should have the same score range as RD2, Witcher 3, God of war etc. such a let down. I also didnt spoil myself ahead of time, I wish I wouldve and saved my money. 14 hours in and I dont want to finish.......ABBY was the worst playable character of all time. hated playing as her. no depth, so hateful. I will not finish my playthrough
I'm sad to say that after years hoping for a sequel, I was disappointed by the terrible story, poor direction and bad choices made for the narrative and pacing of the follow up to a great game. While game play was clunky, but acceptable, what was done to the main characters of part one was a huge waste. If this wasn't a sequel to such an excellent original game, I might have given this title an extra point (up to a 2/10), because the story, even as a standalone is just lame and pedantic. The characters are shallow, no real development or cohesion throughout the story and despite all telegraphed forced emotional moments where they try to make me care about the characters and the story, they failed miserably. It doesn't surprise me that its sales are imploding (over 85% drop from week 1 to week 2). Did they fire the original writer for the first game? I apologize for not getting into specifics, but I don't want to include spoilers in order to allow the largest number of people to read this review and never go near this game.
Uno de los mejores juegos que he jugado en mi vida con una historia de 10 que mantiene el ritmo sin decaer y con un final mejor incluso que el del primero One of the best games i’ve played in my life with a story of 10. The final is even better than the first.

Gameplay is the same as the first and the scenery is great. The storytelling and the portrayals of characters is disappointing. I was left dismayed and questioned Naughty Dogs point of direction in this game.
- Satisfying Gameplay - Great Graphics - Interesting World Design - Good Enemy Variety - Bad Story - Unsatisfying Ending - All New Characters Are Empty and Boring - AI is brain-dead. The Story in this game is so bad, and the characters are so boring, it's honestly one of the most disappointing games in my life with one of the worst plots in history of video games. Play for the gameplay, but if you're here to use your brain for story, just avoid, it's truly what the masses say, Bad.

Um lixo completo valendo pelo gráficos apenas, pois nem o gameplay é algo inédito apenas fizeram um enxerto do Uncharted 4 como cordas e esquivas... Você tem que ver Joel que no primeiro jogo não confiava nem na propria sombra se portar como um amador quando em presença de estranhos e ser torturado pelo "ser anabolizado" chamado Abby... E como se a piada não fosse suficiente Neil Drunkman foi inserido no jogo (o mexicano é a lata dele)... Claro Ellie parte em vingança e destrói meio mundo para isso, mas na hora que tem a chance... Ela não faz contrariando tudo até então... Claro depois que a tela fica preta eu acho que a Elliie se enforcou na arvore perto da casa... E claro Abby vive feliz para sempre...
Graphics are great. Story was ok until I got to the 13 hr mark and you start as Abby Damn that part is like unplayable. The game looks amazing but I've never felt so unmotivated to finish a part of a game before. A character that kills off one of your favorites of all time and they want you to play as them. Idk if I'll even finish it's that bad. I get all the negative reviews now. I mean you can have great graphics even good gameplay but if the story is so **** you literally dont really want to finish that says it all.


What can i say?disapointed,frustated and Sad,até some of the feelings that i have after playing the last of us 2, naughty dog misled and subvert their fanbase,the agenda and Vanity of Neil Druckman ended 7 years of expectations in the worst way,How Sad and pathetic Man he os.
The only reason this game does not get a 0 is because it's literally a work of art aesthetically, that said, they literally make you play as Abby, an unapologetic, murderous, hypocrite, for 11 hours and her **** friends. I hated her, can't even stand this. They ruined this franchise.
This game disgusts me. Why I'm forced to play as Abby for such long time (10 hours) who literally tortured Joel to death just after Joel saved her. The game wants to tell the justification of her revenge, but who cares?! And in the end, she just walked away ?? This game ruins my days.

The best game of this generation and the best good ending for the 8th generation , Amazing story , perfect graphic and awesome game play !!! listen to your heart and buy this game!
This game betrays the legacy of the first game and undoes all of its achievements. Falling from grace almost overnight, by injecting politics, pushing an agenda onto the public. As well as claiming several YouTube and Twitter accounts with DMCA claims. Sony and ND have severely tarnished their reputations among the gaming community. TLOU2 tries too hard to claim the players attention, relying on it's brand of cinematic dramatisation. It's a gruelling journey of depression and bleakness, drowning in morbidity. Aside from flach back segments, there is not a single moment of respite or joy like the first game had, which helped the pacing and added contrast to the story. In fact, the flash backs of Joel and Ellie are the best this game has to offer, which is ironic. The established characters feel out-of-place and poorly written, along with new characters, who are either boring or annoying. The story is so laughably bad, I had trouble pressing on as I felt the writing get progressively worse. It's appropiate to say that the comparison to GOT S8, or The Last Jedi feels hits the nail on the head. The gameplay is okay. A somewhat improvement on the first game's stealth and combat, which were already cumbersome tedious. TLOU2 feels more like a new coat of paint, rather than an much needed overhaul. The game is gorgeous to look at. Probably the best looking game of this generation. The environments are phenomenal and well designed. Unfortuantely the cons far outweigh the pros in this 25 hr long sh*t show of a story. Which is why we all play ND games. For a great story. And this ain't it, chief.
Increíblemente PERFECTO técnicamente , es un juego que por su historia no es para todos , ya que no todos tienen la capacidad de comprender lo que se quiere transmitir.- Una jugada arriesgada y bien realizada .-
7 years, for this ?, What a **** end, is what happens when people like Anita influence a work, end up destroying it and the worst thing is that I don't know why the big industries continue to listen to these types of people.
I know that people find the story amazing, but to me it was predictable and reminded me of the video game trip of you slaughtering a boss then the cut scene starts and they are somehow the one who comes away with the win. And I feel that when it comes to Last of Us if the story fails that is Major reason why people play the game and that is a Majority of the score. They made only few improvements with combat and stealth, which were better but after 10 hours it felt shallow since it didn't feel that different from the original. Basically, moderately enjoyable gameplay but a story that feels generic uninspired.

I waited years for this, avoided spoilers and all the controversy surrounding this title as best as I could. My play through took me three weeks to get through because I am an adult with a job and a family, this game had potential to be absolutely Game of the year but lost it due to bad narrative and lack of open world. In 2020 to release a game that feels like its on rails is shocking. Gameplay was especially the same with a jump button. After digging deeper into why everyone has a problem with this game I find its not the game but the developer and Sony’s reaction to people who don’t agree with the treatment of beloved characters. I get that everyone has a different scale of where they see things as a number value. It’s just an ok game, not even close to GOTY.
False advertising, main character killed, antagonist gets the revenge where Ellie after killing thousends of people learns that vengeance is bad and lets antagonist go, LGBT and feminist themes Extremely forced into the game, in-game every character acts like young californians thinking that alcohol and sex is everything in life. Gameplay and dynamics are very good but they are also repetitive after 20 hours of gameplay. Last but not least i’m no russian but, currently i am level 337 on TLOU remastered multiplayer with the platinum trophy and 100% completion. Imagine how much i love the (first) game...
This game is an absolute masterpiece! I always considered Part I as my all time favourite game but I now think my mind has changed, this game just completely blew me away. The graphics are absolutely stunning, the story is exhilarating and so emotional. A game that must be experienced! An absolute thrill ride! Thank you Naughty Dog!
Apart from the graphics, there is little to the game I actually enjoyed. If you loved the first game do yourself a favour and skip this one. I can't imagine that this franchise could possibly continue after this game it really tarnishes the legacy that much. It feels like naughty dog has no clue why people like the first last of us. There are so many times during the game where it feels like they were trying to impose morals or thoughts on you that you probably already have. It's very bland.
I really wanted to like this game. I knew the spoilers but bought it anyway bec I wanted to give it a fair chance. Story is terrible. After finishing the 1st one for the 3rd time an playing this I’m scratching my head. Joel acts like a big dumb goof compared to the first game. Add on that Abby who’s arms are so ripped I couldn’t stop looking at them. Controls are cluncky, pacing is slow and boring, and the graphics are meh a lot of the times (except for the character models) I had to force myself to finish it bec it’s just not any fun... The game could have been something special but no. Good ol ND and Neil Druckman crapped all over it. Lost all faith in Naighty dog. I been w y’all since the first crash bandicoot game back in 96. Oh how the mighty have fallen
Gameplay as boring as possible, characters are annoying ang not interesting, this game just spits on a whole series and the only purpose of this game is to please lgbt community and all that sjw stuff
O game está incrível, tecnicamente impecável. Até compreendo quem criticou a história do game, pois ele tem uma história com foco diferente do primeiro game, mas igualmente impactante, realista e pesada. O game aborda assuntos que muitos não estão preparados ou abertos a ouvir, e não mede esforços em mexer com as emoções dos gamers (basta ver a comoção de apoio e de fúria nas mais de 100 mil avaliações, algo que nunca vi em análise de games). O game passa uma experiência que nunca tinha sentido nos games, onde o ódio é vivido na pele, é algo pessoal e intimo para o jogador, e mais do que isso, o game te obriga a refletir sobre o seu ódio, ver se ele faz mesmo sentido, se vale o custo, se é inteligente, racional, ou se é apenas cego e animal. Certamente que muitos não esperavam uma obra com essa profundidade e queriam algo mais genérico, simples e divertido, e não tiro a razão, pois a maioria dos produtos são assim e é natural esperar apenas algo divertido. Mas esse é um game de drama bem pesado, e dentro dessa proposta ele é uma obra prima.
how the **** they took 7 years to make a game that has graphics common for most cinematic games in the last 3 years, with a gameplay close to identical with just some hotfix to original? This game is lazyness incarnated it is no more than a mooded version of it's predecessor with a history that makes garbage looks like Mona Lisa, as a game it deserves at most a 3/10, as an interactive movie it gets maybe a 6.5/10.
Technically this game is well executed. The landscapes and sound quality is excellent, as is to be expected from a Naughty Dog game. The game loop is incredibly repetitive, I am not sure how anyone is expected to play this game more than once. While I am only some hours in I am already tired of the same old hackneyed hide, grab, and stab. The major negatives...where to begin, I suppose the story should be first up. This game is depressing... like I would recommend people avoid it if they have any signs of depression or anxiety because it might push you into a really bad place. There is virtually no hope or joy in the world to speak of, and whatever might be considered joy is dashed by character actions. This segues nicely into character problems. I was not as enamored by the original TLoU characters as some people were, but their motivations seemed logically consistent. Honestly what the hell is even going on with these Ellie, Joel, Abby? Joel is completely out of character in comparison to the original game. Ellie and Abby's deathmatch over the course of the game has done nothing for me either as it seems as they will never grow into fully formed characters, rather they will just perpetually be in a juvenile state of vengeance to the end of the game. It has already been spoiled for me so I know what happens, but I am not sure I can last that long even though I am trying to make a review for the game. I was hopeful that this would live up to all the hype that surrounded it, but I have just been disappointed. As I said earlier I am not sure why anybody would give this more than a single playthrough, perhaps a completionist or someone who wanted to fiddle with the varied settings could get more out of it, I just don't see myself caring that much. There is nothing to care about in this game, it is brutal for brutality's sake, and the characters are two dimensional at best. It would be interesting to see how many of the critics who gave this a perfect score actually pick this game off their shelf to play it again now that they've reviewed it. Game of the console generation, huh, sorry TLoU2 I've already played Breath of the Wild, and you ma'am, are no Breath of the Wild,


Hmm...This game has a lot of going for it, however, the game seems to defeat what the original game had. The graphics, obviously are the best thing its got going for it. Gameplay was meh, then again, it's a cinematic game. For those who played the original, most of us liked Joel, or at least are familiar with him. Why tf did they kill him so on? Then we get this boring lady whom they want us to get attached to, but, honestly speaking, I couldn't get into her shoes, and didn't care about her at all. All of a sudden, there's tons of people immune to what's going on...seriously? I could understand a few but there seemed to be a lot in this game... It feels as if they didn't really put a lot of thought. They just made shiny graphics and said "okay done!".
Didn’t think I would have to say this about this series but the Last of Us part 2 is a poorly written Story with boring and uninteresting characters and just told in such a awful way for many reasons. My first reason why is due to the way on how Joel died. I wasn’t upset about him dying but I was just upset about the way he died. Joel and Tommy are smart men and Joel knows whenever something is wrong and how to play situations. The fact that Joel and Tommy are not getting any red flags or nothing makes me feel like his death was rushed and they didn’t put at all much care in how to make his death meaningful and believable. Another reason why I dislike the story is how they treated Ellie also. In the first game I LOVED Ellie and she was my favorite character in the first game along side Joel of course. She is a down to earth girl who tries to have fun even though the world that they are in is filled with evil and hate. But in part 2 Ellie is just in my opinion some Ignorant, selfish, uninteresting girl who is just HELLBENT on murdering Abby and her crew to get revenge to which she kills TONS of innocent people and even dogs and just can’t understand why Joel did what he did in the hospital. I also don’t like how the random MPC surgeon that Joel killed suddenly has a Daughter. I think this is lazy writing and could've done better if she was like the daughter of Marlene or maybe related to David. Furthermore, I don't like how they basically shove Abby down your throat and they try SUPER SUPER hard to make you like her to which fails because you had her kill Joel literally in the first like 2 hours even though Joel saved her alongside Tommy too which kills any kind of relationship immediately. I think that the characters on Abby’s side are all either uninteresting or just there to just be there and hold barely any purpose, same even goes for characters like Dina and Jessie to which had a TON of potential. Another thing about Abby, is that she is SO evil and such a awful/dumb person because she was gonna kill Dina even though Ellie said Dina was pregnant and that she had nothing to do with the killings but Abby didn’t care. At least when Ellie killed Mel, she was shocked and sick to her stomach about it. She also even tortured Joel to death in front of Ellie and she kills Jessie and somehow doesn’t kill Tommy when she shot him in the head. Another reason why is because as much as I felt bad for Abby’s father dying, It doesn’t justify killing Joel. She doesn’t even ask him why he did that or anything. She just wants to murdering/torturing him and not care about why he did what he did. I feel like if we got to play as Abby and see her relationship with her dad more or even play as Abby to begin the game, she would have been more likable. I also don’t like how they basically give all of our characters in the first game a awful ending and how they all suffer but Abby gets away with everything she wants in the end. Its like they want you to hate Ellie and everybody except for Abby. The main thing that I hate is how Ellie leaves Dina to hunt down Abby again to which I don’t blame her and to which I was on Ellie’s side but that quickly changed however when Ellie a split second before drowning Abby to death and Abby biting her fingers off lets her go and now comes home to find Dina and the baby are gone, and everyone she knows is either dead or left her. But the main thing that sucks is how Ellie’s only fear of being alone came true. I was SO SO hurt to wait 7 years for them to expend the relationship of Joel and Ellie due to the trailers and all the interviews before the games release and all that I got in my opinion is just some poor writing story about revenge is bad but only for Ellie but its okay for Abby to which I don’t care at all about her and I left the game feeling depressed, upset, and just felt like I was better off never playing it so that way I don’t have to deal with knowing Joel and Ellie’s fate. I also felt like the writers took everything in the first game from the characters to the theme of the game and threw it all out the window and ignored everything that they built. Now this point that i’m bring up here is something that I saw a youtuber give and the point was how Sarah’s death in the first game was just ignored and they made her death pointless because Sarah’s death is what made Joel the person who he was in the first game which was a hard and tough guy on the outside but a father who lost his daughter but got given another chance at that with Ellie to which it sucks to see that. Sucks to say this but I can honestly say that as a fan of the first game since its release in 2013 I no longer care about what happens to any of the characters even Ellie which sucks to say and I'm not excited for part 3 if they ever do it or even the HBO series to which i have no plans on watching again because of bad I was hurt while playing this game.
The only thing this game has done right is the graphics, absolutely stunning landscapes and the details on people are amazing. The story is the downfall, a sad sequel to the original. Druckman definitely did not understand what made The Last of Us a success and simply tried to recreate the shock factor that certain scenes brought. Killing a character is not a plot device, and dont build up the players emotions and then take a hard u-turn.
Joel’s dies nothing else to say but the gameplay and visuals were awesome. But hated playing as the character that killed my favorite character
I was really looking forward to playing the last of us due to being a huge fan of the first game, I’m a big fan of the Last of Us 2 and it’s gameplay, some of the scenery looks really good, the fights and battles in the game with different types of enemies be it infected or rival communities are also some of the best I’ve seen in gaming, the only one issue I have with this game is obviously the way that one of the main characters was handled, I won’t go into too much detail about that cause you know.. it was only our favourite character after all, the story is a little jumpy and a bit of a mess compared to the first game, with lots of flashbacks, sometimes flashbacks within flashback, and parts of the story towards the end playing as a character you didn’t really care for much really started to drag, I still enjoyed this game a lot, being a fan of the franchise and this game does deserve to be played, and it is a good game in its own right! .. but due to the route they decided to take with this game it will never compare to the first, 7/10.. could’ve been a lot better!


Neil Druckman cried at the end, now I can see why. Don’t buy this, don’t do it. Save 60 for ghost of Tsushima or cyberpunk, thank you naughty dog for ruining something beautiful
This review contains a great deal of spoilers. Read it at your own caution. I will try to not specifically spoil things in particular with particular detail, but I will give a rough outline of the way the story is structured. My problem with the Last of Us 2 is not in Ellie being a lesbian or Dina being bisexual or in Lev being a transman. I found the area of Seattle with Pride flags to be, well, pretty normal considering it's Seattle. I found the fact that the two women in a lesbian relationship not understanding "what's with all the rainbows" was self-aware, funny, and a moment of levity. The little novel you can find in the bookstore that is lesbian erotic has a description on the back that is self-aware and humorous and makes fun of cliches about college lesbian experiences. These things are done just fine and I don't particularly feel any way about them in particular. Whether or not you care about these things... they're mostly minor. Mostly. Except for one character's backstory, though that character's backstory is never forced down your throat and I feel they could have even been more subtle with it. My problem is how the game treats revenge, Ellie, Joel, and the player, as well as the order of events. The game is broken into 4 main sections. The intro, two main halves, and the conclusion. Sort of like an essay, almost. The problem is that something that happens in the introduction involving a major character death has almost zero context and had I gone into the game completely unspoiled, I'd have been outraged at this death. This major character is a survivor. Someone hardened and wizened to the cruelty of the world. This character saves someone from danger and in return, when they reach safety, this major character introduces themselves plainly without any paranoia and with full trust while at the mercy of other people. This major character should not have done this and it is completely out of their character. They are then promptly killed. With the context as to why, it makes sense. But the game does not supply this context until more than halfway through the game. In Ellie's section of gameplay, we get flashbacks of her growing up with Joel after they've settled in Jackson. Their relationship develops, and in the final flashback from her half of the game, her relationship with Joel becomes incredibly rocky. We do not see how her relationship with Joel stands at the start of the game until we get cutscenes from the night before the start of the game. The game should begin like so for a more clear and understandable setup. We would see flashbacks for the character who kills a major character to understand their motivation. Then we see Ellie growing up some. Then we alternate between flashbacks for Ellie and the killer so as to understand how they've grown and changed and become who they are. Then we start the game and lead up to the major character death. This would make things so much more understandable on both sides and a lot more straightforward instead of contrived and feeling very retcon-y. The killer's gameplay sections are interesting much like Ellie's and the relationships that they develop along the way are fine on their own. I found them a bit lacking compared to the dialogue between Ellie and Dina and Jesse, but I also found them more than serviceable and had little issue with that. This final paragraph contains a LOT of spoilers. You are warned. All I will say now is that the conclusion of the game is unsatisfying and horribly written. Ellie does not kill Joel's killer. She is about to kill her and spares her. Ellie returns home and Dina has left her and taken her baby with her. Ellie has lost everything. Instead of making this a chance to contemplate whether or not Ellie killing Abby was worth it if it cost her everything, she doesn't get revenge for Joel at all, and Abby escapes off to Catalina Island with no consequences for her actions. Joel had consequences for what he did, I don't deny that. But Ellie was justified in wanting to kill Abby. The game does try to make things morally gray, but it does so very poorly. And I found myself suffering fatigue from the story after a while. It was dragged on for so long. It felt unnecessary in many places. It sheds the best parts of the first game and how its characters interacted and it did so for a revenge story, which can be amazing (Kill Bill, Django Unchained, etc.) but the opportunity was squandered and the game is unsatisfying. A rogue group of Firefly remnants kidnapping Ellie and Joel trying to save her would have been a better story. Or just even having Ellie kill Abby would have made the game much better, sincerely speaking. I wanted to enjoy this game. I wanted it so badly. But I barely enjoyed anything in it apart from the somewhat improved combat and the beautiful scenery.

Solid gameplay and polished graphics and sound acting. However the story is abysmal and the constant plot holes will send you searching for the TLOU1 and its tremendous story layout. I did not care that the characters and the specifics of what happened to them. However the new characters that are added are lackluster and one dimensional. This situation forces the player to experience a new game, a game that makes its best effort to be a new identity. I didn't buy this game for a new game, I thought i was purchasing sequel... This isn't it. Do not buy if you want a sequel, If you want a game which forces social agendas on you then this is your game.
I'm Truly heartbroken after waiting all these years and falling in love with the first game this is what we got what huge FN disappointment neil druckmenn or whatever his name is should be fired for pushing his agenda and bullcrap on our faces i really hope sony does something because this is just bad

Respect IGN Japan, because you didn't take a bribe from sony. 1 problem "feminism and lgbt".
Original game was a strong 8.5. Was it good - Yes. Was it overrated - Yes. Just finished TLOU2 - my god what have they done. Games are meant to be FUN. This was a chore to play. If it wasn’t for insomniac I’d switch to Microsoft next gen.
This game is the very definition of a 5/10 game. On the one hand, the graphics and sound design are undeniably fantastic - industry leading for what a developer can accomplish on a current-gen console, to be sure. On the other hand, the story and characters are tumblr fanfiction-tier. Plot holes everywhere, characters who are utterly unhinged, irrational, completely despicable, and impossible to relate to if you're even remotely well-adjusted. Coupled with the fact that they're being played by actors, who, by their performances illustrate that they've never gone through real hardship or horror makes for a final group of performances that, while basically competent, still fall off as insincere and unbelievable. To solidify this game's place in the middle of the road comes the gameplay. Bog-standard AAA "stealth" mixed with somewhat chunky gunplay, and all of it marred by "I am in love with my animations" syndrome that so many AAA developers seen to suffer terribly from in recent years makes the gameplay in and of itself wholly unremarkable and translates into a forgettable experience. The environments, while very pretty and full of detail, feel like video game levels more than they do organic settings, and do extremely little more than make a player stop for a few seconds to take a screenshot and move on without much second thought. For brevity's sake I will stop it here, because you get the gist. This is the game. A hundred-million dollar project that feels like the entire budget was spent on the graphics/sound team, and then left to some college student interns to write, direct and produce. College interns who think that Twitter and the CW are the pinnacle of cultural and artistic insight.

An honest review of this game would make it a 5 or a 6. The game world is beautiful and the gameplay is good, the story is just really poor, it honestly felt like a slap in the face to kill off Joel in that fashion then expect me to want to play as or care about his murderer, it just killed my motivation to play which sucks because I had been really looking forward to this game. Just a big let down
Ok where to begin! First of all I want to say that the Last of Us Part 1 Was an absolute masterpiece! Having grown so found of Joel and Ellie, watching Joel go through heart ache, survive an apocalypse, grow hardened to the world. But then get a second chance with Ellie was amazing. I waited patiently for the follow up. Staying spoiler free despite the odds stacked against me. Saying that I am disappointed, angry, confused and broken with the Last of us part 2 is an understatement! I just don’t get it?? How can you mess up a winning formula that was pretty much guaranteed to sell and do well. Last of Us part 2 Graphics are amazing - TBF i expect nothing less from a AAA title in 2020! Gameplay mechanics are good but pretty much the same as the first with some improvements - going prone, climbing and dodging but that’s about it. Story is disgusting! Treatment of Joel, not just killing him but making him die in the most painful, brutal way possible and then literally spitting on his dead body??? Just not acceptable however you try and slice it. Ellie is this mean and a not so likeable character all of a sudden?? Must be the fact that she has lived in relative safety with her own home, surrounded by loved ones, friends and community for the last 4 years?? We have hardly any scenes of Joel and Ellie one museum flashback which is really nice. But that’s it, every other scene between them she is just horrible to him. Newsflash NaughtyDog, practically everyone of us doesn’t think what Joel did at the end of Last of Us was that big a deal!?!! I think every father would have done the same in a flash!?! I think any daughter or other human would understand why he choose not to let her die. Making us play for so long as the character who kills Joel has to be the biggest mistake ever made in gaming history. She is shoved down your throat in this linear story. You just have to grit your teeth and try and get through. Even forces you to beat Ellie to a pulp at one stage and fight Tommy. Everything I am told about Abby still doesn’t make me like her. Her father is not very likeable, her redemption with two random kids doesnt make any sense. They saved her life she says over and over again, well so did Joel didn’t make a difference then!?!?! No she still brutalised him, not even on he saved my life I’ll make it quick!!! Even the kids who are supposed to be why we should like her are a bit annoying. Lev basically runs off and gets his mother and sister killed after you have just spent 2 hours trying to save the same sister. Ellie kills like 1000 people trying to get to Abby and then when you finally get your hands on her right at the end and think you’ll get a pay off and some redemption. She decides killing is bad and she’s not worth it. In this mission of pointless revenge Ellie loses everyone and everything she ever had. No Joel, no Tommy, no Dina, can’t go back to Jackson. Just left alone, wondering the wilderness and then the game finishes! Shame on you NaugtyDog, you always had my money regardless, I’d buy your products day 1 without even thinking about it, not anymore!
I watched all of the leaks, and still decided to buy this game. Naughty Dog has always come through in the past, and I assumed would do so again. The graphics are amazing, the gameplay is slightly improved from the original, but the story is a typical Hollywood trope, that has been done countless times before. For me, this was a huge letdown. This game is certainly not a 10, but deserves better than a 0. I landed on a 6. I would definitely wait for a sale to buy this game.
Ok there are 2 parts on my review, the game doesn't deserve a 0 and I will tell you the reasons why it's a 5 The graphics, the level design, character design, GRAPHIC design (there is more than what you think) everything is beautifull and I though DMC and GOW had the best graphics for a PS4 or console game in general BUT this **** is soo special, feels good, lookds good and is kinda fun even though the gameplay is not as polish and milimetric as COD, Overwatch, etc. If you wanna be pleased with marvelous graphics, layout and good looking everything be my guest and play this game. THE STORY IS THE PROBLEM, you expect something from a game. If you buy DOOM you wanna feel badass and kill demons moving fast with BIG GUNNS, if you buy dishonored you wanna go stealth or murdered everbody in creative ways. Unless you like to brainlessly spent your money, the process goes by knowing which kind of game you want to play before buying it Since the last of us 1 I expected to buy the sequel FOR THE STORY and the story is trash. You don't get the context necesary to empathize to some of the main characters. Some of the events on the game are pointless, could have been pretended and make the characters to feel really stupid. The pacing of the game is horrible, doesn't feels like the events slowly and organically guide to the end but they feel like they wanted the sroty to GO LIKE THIS instead of letting it to unfold itself at a reasonable series of events AS STATED BY DRUCKMAN the context will make you understand the reason for it but instead the context given makes you HATE to play it and ends up being unfun SOME characters, acts, events, from the first game are disrespected becaus of the dumbass context. If something was gray color on the 1st, will be BLACK AF on this one. I wouldn't buy this game if you're comming for the story, so bad that the story is SO trash it eclipse the gameplay and good animations and graphics
How you gonna kill 5 million people then get to the person you wanna kill and be like "Nah, it's just gonna be a cycle of vengeance". What about the cycles your started with the other 5 million **** you killed, huh? What about that **** huh!? Dumb ass plot.
To be honest I am more disappointed in the studio than the game itself. Gameplay: The same as Part 1 Sound: Great - on the same level as Part 1 Graphics: Improved and detailed textures and animations. But this much is expected after 7 years. Story: Boring, full of mindboggling plot holes and frustrating. Here are some key points for my disappointment : 1 - Neil Druckmann and ND purposefully changed the trailers to deceive players to think the story will be about Joel and Ellie; 2 - After the leaked gameplay ND exploited the copyright system and falsely struck hundreds of YouTube channels that were just expressing their opinions; 3 - Accusing players of being homophones, if you don't like the game you must be a virgin; 4 - ND abusing workforce and firing anyone that expresses concern about the story; 5 - The story being utter garbage with mind-boggling plot holes and devoid of logic; 6 - Refusing refunds; 7 - Calling everyone that doesn't like the game a bigot, misogynist, hater or homo; 8 - Using Joel for advertising (even on Father's Day). Joel is brutally massacred in the first hour of gameplay. ; 9 - Stating/Advertising that Ellie and Joel will be the only playable characters; 10 - Calling Ellie "The only playable female character in the game industry"; 11 - Forcing us to play with a boring and frustrating character. And many more...
El juego es asombroso, gráficos del next level, animaciones muy bien logradas inclusive realistas, inteligencia artificial muy buena, detalles por doquier variedad de escenarios, diálogos y acciones. La historia es cuestionable desde el punto de cada jugador.
A disastrous disappointment: The Last Of Us Part 2 is a beautiful looking game albeit a narrative failure. With improved gameplay and visuals, the game is beautiful to look at and exploration is incredibly immersive. However, the story is a complete flop which disregards and disrespects the fans that made the first game what it is. The game feels more like the final part in a trilogy more than part 2. There are five years of untapped potential that was completely wasted and confined to 2 hours worth of flashbacks. It’s a bad sign when the flashbacks that have very little gameplay are better than the actual story. Naughty Dog have taken what made the first game amazing and a storytelling masterpiece and turned it into a plot hole filled disrespectful and nasty game which even messes up its own message: That violence and revenge is wrong. Characters are wasted and not fully developed. New characters are bland and don’t serve any purpos. A massive disappointment for anyone who plays, Even The visuals and voice performances can’t save you from wanting to put down the controller after half way through. This is Game of Thrones season 8 levels of writing/fan fiction.
I had been anxious about the second part of the last of us, and after the leak occured I stay away from any information related, cause I didnt wanted anyone ruining the experience. My expectation was high since the first game was a masterpiece, and just like uncharted I was expecting same as uncharted I was expecting more of the same formula with enhanced graphics, enemy AI, and a more expanded world to explore. That would be enough for me to love the game if the characters we loved had some missions to accomplish, and try to form a bond between joel and ellie like father, daughter. But no they had to do the fans wrong. They killed our favorite character, turn ellie into a unrecognizable person and have to make sure to push their sexual ideals and feminist beliefs onto the fans. Neil druckmann, really want to be accepted by the LGBT community, that he would go as far as to destroy and studio and his legacy. I hope he doesn't work crating for sony anymore. Stay away from this game if you haven't played. Just do what I did played the first game on ps3 a couple of times, and the remastered on the ps4 once, and I'm about to play it again soon, I want to remember ellie as that curious little girl with funny quotes, and smart remarks, and how she won Joel's feelings during their travel adventure.
good things first game came out early and it is done. no bugs or game breaking glitches. also the game looks great land scape shoots are amazing to take in. game play is smooth and clean but reputative and that wouldn't be a problem if the story made you want to progress watch it dose not. Every time it switched to Abby I wanted to turn the game off at the same time Elie wasn't that fun to play with either. by hour 5 I felt like I was just doing chorus and I just wanted the game to be over but I stuck in there to see if this story had anything up its sleeve. At the end of my play threw I really truly wish I just turned of the game at hour 4 and got my money back. It is a tale told by an idiot full of sound and fury signifying nothing

I remember how excited I was to get this game me and my dad pre-ordered the game when we got the game we were very disappointed I couldn't beat the game because it was so bad we traded the game in the next day
After 7 years from the masterpiece that was The Last of Us, we get the sequel to a very loved game. It would seem impossible to think of this game flopping due to everything established in the first game and the excitement of the news of a sequel. But somehow it was worse than I could ever imagine. The tragedy that sets the whole story into motion is also a great betrayal of beloved characters on the part of Naughty Dog. The problem with this scene is not that Joel dies but the manner of how he dies and possibly when this takes place in the story. Joel in the TLoU was always cautious and hardly trusting of anyone. Joel even drove into a stranger on the road pretending he was injured because he knew what they were planning from prior experience of doing the same thing. Knowing the danger of people, Joel and Tommy decide to risk their lives to save a stranger with infected storming in to then tell Abby where they live and what their real names are without finding the motives of this stranger first? With the rising pressure of the infected, they decide to flee to the friends of Abby who are hiding in there neck of the woods and probably shouldn't even be there with no cause for concern with what that could mean. Not to mention the game just started and just before you even get your feet wet into the game Joel dies to a nobody in such a dry way just for shock value. This whole scene felt so forced and ingenuine of their characters that I didn't want to keep watching after this all played out. The second half of the game was very boring as I couldn't care less for Abby or any of Abby's friends. ND forces you to play as Abby just so they can impress upon you that Abby was justified with the actions that unfolded throughout the game. I never bought into this idea and never will. Also, don't get me started with the unbearable sex scene that came out of nowhere. What seemed to be the ending(s) of the game which I thought ever time it faded to black was more disturbing than what they did to Joel. Between the ideology being shoved down our throats the whole game to the cycle of revenge never taking place which was broken as Ellie let her go, I realized this game was a giant waste of my time. The only good things I can take away from the game are the amazing graphics, superb voice acting, and the flashbacks to Joel and Ellie that looking back now should have been the entire game.
TLOU2 does a wonder in its visuals, the graphic fidelity it can achieve in a limited hardware show how much work naughty dog put into it. Gameplay is also an improvement over the first Tlou which is not perfect. Story when we are reviewing a single player campaign with no multiplayer, it's the most important point to get right to add replayability, recommmend to others, accessibility. In my own critical opinion the story felt unbelievable, many decisions over the story makes no sense, commonly known as the "plot armor", many relationships which TLOU2 focused on more than the story itself, felt forced and scripted in a terrible timeline of events. TLou2 felt like the beginning stage to plan this game was, how to make more brutal and gruesome? to show the cruelty of the world they live in by breaking the boundaries of what games have shown in violent and sexual acts to fake easier an impact or shock. CHARACTERS: a big problem here since any character respecr what they were on the previous entry, they as well could be other characters if it werent for the resemblance and it shows strongly when they reckoned Tlou1 in form of amazing flashbacks which make you wish all the game were just in the past. Without going into spoilers. Its is hard to recommend this game to others, it has a few awesome sub-plots, clearly doesnt deserve anything less than a 5 just for visuals and sound but when story is what are you selling and its terribly written in a way that would want to make you stop playing and bought for 60 dlls to see such a disrespectful story to tlou legacy. It hurts its own fan base which i was into, without amy hennig as the main writter and lead i wouldnt be interested in a sequel to this. Sorry for any bad grammar, i am mexican and i know my english is not perfect, hopefully i was able to make my point clear. Planned actually a 7 but since story is the heaviest point to be able to replay, i did give it more weight and as a 6 i cant recommend it, (PASS) unless you really want to experience the story by yourself even with all the warnings
+ Graphics and animations - Story and respect to lore - Pacing - Less compelling characters - Nerfed combat They Last Jedi'd us. Days Gone is better.
Absolute disgrace of a sequel. Writer craps on the previous characters from the main game and has them act like complete and utter fools. Pointless cliche revenge story that ends in nothing accomplished with some of the most hated and useless characters I have ever seen in a video game. The forced sex scene with Abby is more disturbing and disgusting then any infected encounter and said infected take mostly a backseat and have been nerfed, difficulty wise, considerably. The ways that Naughty Dog also lied in the trailers with false advertising and how Neil Druckmann openly insults his fans has tarnished this series and their name potentially forever. A complete shame and a monstrous disappointment and betrayal to the fans that waited 7 years for this sequel to be made.
The game is really good. Stop being salty and close minded. Granted, the pacing could have been better, that is my biggest problem with the game. But does that really make the games story poorly written and bad? The amount of insane moments in the game are beyond any 0/100 scores. Good god i hate the human race.
Loved the first game. For this one, I actually tried to understand the developers and what they were trying to do. So let me start with the good: graphics and mechanics are spot on. The bad: Unfortunately, the game story is very important to me, and they really screwed up here. The death of certain characters was done in poor taste. And they had to insert a bunch of cultural Marxist SJW feminist bs, that I just can't stand. It is basically weak soyboys everywhere living along the manly or insanely tough and smart women; they even had a pregnant woman go out in the field, fighting. Why? Basically Antifa chumps inserted into the game. It is pathetic. I also didn't like that Ellie and Dina didn't have any chemistry. But I did like them as characters in general. Niel needs to get fired. We need some better writers and people that don't hold a certain ideology or agenda.
Many good things about the game. However, the story was very disappointing. I went in expecting to have a great experience with the characters I fell in love with in the first game. Not the case... The pacing of the game was not very good either, felt very stagnant at times, like the game just stopped progressing. The ending was very depressing and disappointing as well. The gameplay could have been better. Felt like no matter what I did to be stealthy I would be forced into a situation of being seen or would be seen while hiding. So stealth was not very good which I personally enjoy the most in games like this. Overall probably won't go back and play again, at least not until a long time has passed and I am looking for a game to just fill my time between new releases.
Never in my life have I played a game so blatantly motivated by SJW hysteria whilst simultaneously destroying the memory and reputation of a previous installment. Naughty Dog has just taken a huge dump on its fans and made you pay for it too. As long as Neil Druckmann is behind any future games I will not be buying them, what the hell were you thinking Naughty Dog?
I won't post spoilers I was very lucky to game share with my brother, had I bought this pile of steaming dung I would be very upset and angry. If you are a fan of the first game please don't waste your time on this, its like being spat at in the face of fans of the first. I'm going to pretend that this game doesn't even exist and that the first was the last. I can't tell you how gutted I felt while playing this game. A certain part of this game quite close to the start made me want to give up on it completely but I thought I would carry on bland combat boring stealth and a story that felt stailer than than a piece of gone off bread, thanks but no thanks.
THIS GAME IS A MASTERPIECE, I mean i don’t know what to say really, the game is as close to perfect in my eyes, the story arc and just character development is A1, mainly because at the start of the game i wanted to see Abby get killed just as much as the next guy, but i never would of thought but by the end i felt sorry for her, she lost her dad to Joel, that is enough reason to go after him, let alone him being the reason the vaccine will never be created. She lost all of her friends, she lost everything, except for Lev. Surely thats worse than death. I also think the end of Ellie’s story was heartbreaking but perfect, there’s still hope for her imo, she learned that at times you gotta learn to not let your emotions get the best of you, to me and the end she’s going back to Jackson to possibly fix her relationship with Tommy, Dina etc. but thats me thinking positively, we’ll see if they do a part III. Also the gameplay is **** great, that **** is brutal and i love it, graphics are obviously incredible, cant wait for multiplayer, whenever that comes out. Overall its literally a perfect sequel, not quite as good at the original, but its so damn close.
Jogo simplesmente HORRÍVEL!!! História que desagradou vários fãs, principalmente eu. Um personagem tão bem construído como Joel jogado de lado, para que Ellie, uma personagem nada carismática, completamente sem sal fosse a protagonista do enredo. Mecânica ultrapassada, nada inovadora. Jogo tão sem graça e sempre na mesmice. Não via graça nem diversão alguma nas minhas horas perdidas no game, simplesmente estava jogando para não desperdiçar por completo meu dinheiro. Jogo tinha muito potencial, mas se deixou levar por idéias "progressistas" e pela lacração. É nítido que várias pessoas não gostaram do jogo, mas a equipe de marketing está fazendo um grande esforço comprando as mídias especializadas pra endeusar algo que não passa de um grande vexame no mundo dos games. Mas convenhamos, tem um ponto positivo: tem gráficos bonitos kkkkk
I don't recommend anyone buy this game. It's a trash revenge plot story with no real motivations. Or convictions. After viewing this game. IT's terrible; the only characters you even give a **** about is Joel and Tommy. The original story to the first Last of Us game was amazing. Because it was written by Amy Henning. I wanted another great story written by Amy Henning. Neil the cuck. Has ruined a once-great game series. The revenge story with Abby doesn't make any sense at all. The character is completely bland; plain, unrelatable and you don't care for her either. Her supposedly redemption arc she's supposed to have. Have is complete **** She basically goes around murdering people. Just because of what group they belong too. Joel was an amazing character who was broken after losing his daughter, Sarah. In the first game; who forms a fatherly bond with young Ellie. While trying to survive against the odds. he was the hero of the last game. For saving Ellies' life. After the fireflies basically trying to justify killing her and all the others also immune. saying their lives have less value in this dystopian world in order to save everyone else. Abby doesn't feel any remorse or regret for murdering people. Ellie was completely out of character and a **** to Joel over saving her life. Neil dumbed down the character's Joel and Tommy to try and make Abby look better in comparison, all the other characters are straight trash. Yeah, the visuals are great and the gameplay mechanic is still the same, with just a little something added here and there. Even, that's not enough to save this dumpster fire of a game. I hate that Naughty dog git rid of Amy Henning and let that cuck Nail ruin the story she created. I'm done with Naughty dog. False advertising that we could play as Joel and Ellie in the game. a revenge plot with no substance and completely pointless since the character. Wh0 was supposed to get her revenge, didn't get it. I'm glad I did not waste my money on this trash ass game. I watched and borrowed a copy. The characters Vara and Levi are trash as well. Poorly written and underdeveloped characters You don't care about. Neil pushing his personal politics and agenda in this game. This is a huge reason why this story is trash. As well as the whole game. Emotionless relationships between terrible characters. Meanless and Ellie ha no chemistry what so ever with Dina. Shaking my head. Don't waste your time or money on this game it isn't worth it. If you still wanna check this game out. Wait until it comes down to a bargain-bin price of $2. Because that's all this game is worth. That's just me being nice.
The graphics are immaculate. The gameplay is fine. There isn't anything beyond amazing here. It's good, but there isn't anything to rave over. The story is atrocious. There are a lot of plot holes and you can see where the writers had to write themselves into or out of a situation. Specific characters do things they wouldn't, but if they don't, there's no game. It's unfortunate.
What they did to Joel was disgusting and disrespectful towards fans who loved Joel.
a fortuitous game that clearly only has one objective in mind, not to tell a story, not be be an engaging and fun action game, but to bait poltical agendas and cause a stirr during an election year.
The story is bad. They killed our favorite character and then forced us to play with his killer. They destroyed the story. Don't waste your money on this.
Average graphics and game play I been waiting for 4 years since the first playing the new game I nearly finish the game not recommend to anyone to spend more then 20 bucks/aussie/ for it the high standard expected from naughty dog the game is C- not a trash but worse then advertise not want to comment on the story but is one of the worse i seem in recent times ...i been playing games for more then 30 years very disappointed
My honest take on the game First off, my english is not perfect so sorry in advance, and sorry for the long post, not good at writing either. A highly anticipated game for so many years by so many people. Including me. First off, we all have seen the trailers. It was hyping us all up for the sequel. Looking back now i see how they have lied and falsely markedet this game. Should be illegal. The story is decent, not good but decent. And by that i mean the plot is understandable. But it is not okay for this game. As the first game was my favorite game of all time. The sequel just takes a huge pile of **** and throws it all over you and spits on you. Thats how it feels. For the story is where this game fails. I must say credit where credits due. The game mechanics in this game is very much improved from the first installement. Its fluid and feel really good, but thats all there is of good things i have to say about this game. Years and years of waiting and anticipating this game. We get it, now i wanna be reasonable when reviewing this game. But i can’t be reasonable with how this game is. SPOILERS How can someone in their right mind decide it was a good idea to kill a such beloved charachter like Joel in such a disrespectful way. And topping it off make us play half the game as the person who killed your most loved character in a video game. It baffels me. You want us to feel for this Abby? No way. How you can write a masterpiece of a game, and follow up with this disaster. You might feel at times the real Naughty Dog is held at gunpoint after you complete the game. Like this aint Naughty Dog.

It’s a bad game. Not because Ellie is a lesbian. Not because abby drew the short straw when it comes to genetics. Not because of any LGBT characters (which there are but I won’t apoil here for those who still want to burn $60. The problem is the story. It’s bad. And yes, it tries to push Neil’s vision down our throats. And we get to pay $60 for the privilege. But to make it worse? We were lied to. Naughty Dog clearly stated Ellie would be the only playable character (link omitted): Naughty Dog stated players wouldn’t be forced to kill dogs (spoiler: you are forced in unskippable Quick Time Events) (link omitted) And the trailer... with Joel saying he wouldn’t let Ellie do this on her own? Just another lie. This my friends, is called FALSE ADVERTISING. Stores are denying refunds, but there is a petition with 30k signatures requesting Naughty Dog to change the story of ‘The Last of Us II’ to something that resembles what we were promised. Obviously, that won’t happen. But, it may send a message that Druckmann’s toxicity and narcissism costs them money. Because if there’s ne message any corporation (Sony included) talks... is money. Save your money and use it to support developers who care about fans and delivering a great product (like CD Projekt Red) instead of virtue signaling. With that said, I can’t give it a 1 (or a 10 like some did mere hours after release). Graphics are great. Gameplay is the same (with the addition of crouching in vegetation, something the first Metal Gear game introduced back in 1987). And btw, the stellar reviews by IGN and friends? Here’s how it works. Access media (like IGN), depends on developers giving them early access to games in order to write about them. Which - in the case of highly-anticipated games like this - bring lots of clicks, which brings lots of money. Give the game a bad review and a powerful publisher like Naughty Dog will keep them in the doghouse when their next bug game comes out. Their competitors get access they don’t, weite articles, get clicks and money... you get the drift. Take everything these big sites say with a bucket of salt. It’s a business. Journalistic integrity and impartiality be damned! Avoid this steaming pile of manure.

Isn’t the hype! Waiting for 7 years for a game with a little evolution! Thinking the first one was from the other generation. this was the first time I buy before released and a lot of regrets
Great visuals. Too bad games aren’t based on visuals. It plays like a game made in 2015, and there were better games at that point. Story arc is utterly delusional. Characters make choices they wouldn’t, because a new 4head ran this guano show. He even inserted himself in the game just to have a sex scene with his new muhqueen. Jon snow still knows nothing. We’re forced to play a character only a small minority will relate too, for ideological reasons not her/him/it’s mental state. If a character is well written and enthralled by an engaging story everyone will relate to them. Pure pandering, welcome to 2020 folks. It’s sad to see such a beloved IP brought so low just for ideological purposes .

Великая игра, великая точка в конце поколения PS4. Все кто ставят игре плохие оценки, либо в неё не играли, либо 100% в неё не играли!
I cannot believe what they did with these beloved characters... this is definitely the darkest timeline. This, like the Sequel trilogy, I categorize as Star Wars LEGENDS. If Disney did it for themselves then I can definitely do this for myself and maybe for every other gamer that feels the same way.
Graphics, physics, animations: 10/10 best in the business. So many objects are movable and breakable. Bloaters crash through walls. Character animations are above anything in video games to date and interact with the environment. Great rope physics. Gameplay, level design, sequences: 9/10 poorly paced gameplay segments. Amazing accessibility options. great scavenge, upgrade, combat gameplay loop. Hidden areas to explore to upgrade faster. Open world hubs towards beginning of game. Some simple neat puzzles. Some of the best 3rd person shooter combat of all time. Amazing AI. Last of us combat features no hip fire, some stun when you get hit, heavy weapon sway, low fire rate, slightly slow aiming down sights all to make it feel more grounded. So it may not be for everyone. It's not extremely innovative from the first game rather mostly fixed and more challenging on higher difficultues. You also play as another character half way through which makes you have to restart the upgrading. A few memerable sequences including some chases, escapes, skyscrapers, and boss fights. Story: 5/10 poorly paced by adding flashbacks and skipping time. Characters motivated by petty revenge which is very hard to sympathize with. A lot of choices ellie and abby make or the way they act seem very inconsistent. With the way they all of a sudden feel remorse or let eachother live. Main character from the first game dies. That alone ruins the story for many people and was completely unnessacary.

Отрабатывающий повесточку глупый хлам от Дракмана с отвратными персонажами и отвратным детским сюжетом.
Visuals & gameplay is great, but can't stand the abysmal storywriting & joyless character arcs. Much like StarWars8 - established characters are underdeveloped and behave out of character to try 'shock&awe' but just feels hollow, whilst focusing on new characters that lack any charm or charisma. Just ruins the playing experience despite the solid gameplay
the game looks beautiful great lighting and sound design but the story is where it falls apart for me no one is like able in this game it became a depressing slog to play one of the most disappointing sequels in recent memory
Tried to write a review but there's too many issues to go into detail so I'm going to give my summary. The way the killed Joel off was dreadful he deserved a lot more especially seeing how he was beloved by so many of fans from the first game. It was like the developers wanted to annoy their fans. Ellie's story was completely pointless and meaningless as you are forced to play as Abby and stop Ellie and killing her friend Jesse and almost killing Tommy and Dina. Being forced to play as Abby was a terrible move and completely destroyed the pacing of the game and ruined my enjoyment especially with multiple flashbacks from playing with Ellie reminding you that Abby brutally murdered Joel and now you have to plays as her for 12 hours as they show you her dull backstory. I feel like it would've been better if for example, Abby was introduced first at the start of the game with scenes of the hospital just after the events of the first game to introduce us to Abby and show motive. Instead it was terrible character development which was too little too late. Also no character development for Abby's friends they're still just nobodies who help Abby whenever she asks no matter what it seems. Story writing was just bad. Trying to give Abby morals even though she never once questioned her choices and was happy betraying her own friends and allies to make her feel less guilty about herself. Turning Ellie into a bad person was even more poor writing and was ill suited especially after the fact that every decision you make and action you take is pointless and niether the player or character get their release. The ending was lack lustre especially as you finally get to play as Ellie again but instead of excitement it was boredom with me thinking "here we go again". Abby, somebody nobody cares about, gets the better end of the stick with the encounter with Ellie making the entire game a waste of time. I shall now reinstall the Last of Us remastered and pretend this game never existed as I feel 2020 would be better without it.
Neil must be fired! It's purposely put his personal prejudice into a famous game. He destroyed such good game good IP. Sony shall put pressure to NDog. Our players cannot gonna take it anymore in future!
Yep I won’t be finishing this one. Not a fan of the story. Graphics are amazing. Story is awful. Updated: finished it and HATED the ending. Gameplay w Abby is fun. I didn’t like her character though. I didn’t care about any of the story after “the thing” happens. Ruined characters. You couldn’t pay me to play another sequel.
Now that I have completed my first play-through. I can give this game a fair review. I put in over 35 hours into my first run and was blown away by the entire game. I loved the first one and while part 2 is a little weaker in the story, I s till loved every second that I was playing. Yes the game isn't perfect, fighting with the camera at times wasn't fun but besides that one downfall, I enjoyed it greatly. Graphics on my Pro: 9/10 Story: 9/10... it made me mad, sad, happy and silently watch the credits go by reflecting on the story that Naughty Dog wrote. Controls: 9/10 Characters: 10/10 Now to address the massive amount of homophobic trolls giving this game a 0 just because the game has a gay character is sad and hurts the gaming industry entirely.. (seriously over 115,000 reviews when Part one currently only has a total of 22,000 reviews including the Remastered). We begged Naughty Dog to make a part 2 and how does the community thank them? By giving over 50,000 negative reviews, threaten the voice actors/actresses with violence and death threats, accusing Naughty Dog of false advertising??? and making anti-Semitic comments towards the director. This game deserves more than a 5.2 average score (currently), let's stop the hate and trolling... we as gamers are better than that. Thank you Naughty Dog and thank you to those who actually played and finished the game before giving the review.
What was that. Disappointed. I trully think it was going to be in the same genre as the first one. I really don't understand what happened in their heads when they all approved this. I wish they could redo it, with the first one's energy


-Graphics 10/10 (IGN style) -Story 2/10 -Gameplay 6/10 Whoever thinks the story is fine* should be more honest about how they actually feel. Instead of WhiteKnighting Naughty Dog.

Incredible game play and graphics, and necesary story considering that joel kill a lot of innocents, pls normalice sexuality and stop being babys.
Игра огонь. Графика и геймплей потрясающие. Сюжет как раз такой, как и хотел. За душу берет!
Loved the story. It’s a deep dive into the psychology of two women who come from very different backgrounds and yet they’re lives intertwined and the parallelisms could not be more apparent. Big upgrade to the gameplay of Part I and we meet some interesting NPC’s along the way. Very much worth the play. Such an intense game, just wow.
It's a masterpiece. When I first got to the part when you play as Abby in the second half I started to hate it. As I pushed through to see the end I started to appreciate what they did with the story. Playing as Abby shows she has a human side and she started to grow on me. I still wish Joel didn't die but the way they humanized Abby and showed she had a compassionate side to her made you think about what revenge does to both sides. I began to grow attached to Abby even though I hated her for the first half of the game. I encourage those of you reading this to try it for yourself. I absolutely loved the first game and cleared it about 6 or 7 times. I don't understand why people are review bombing this without giving the game a shot. The gameplay is improved by a lot compared from the first one and Ellie is such a badass and fun to play as. I urge you to try this game instead of blindly basing your decision off the leaks. The ending of part 2 isn't as strong as the first game but I still enjoyed almost every minute of my time playing it.

Amazing game. Beat 2 times on hard and survivor difficulties. The story is amazing and graphics plus acting is all top notch perfect 10s. Gameplay is fun as hell and very upgraded from the first game which is one of the things I hear people complain about along with the story. Yes joel dies but his death was not in vain. It need to happen for this fantastic story to carry out.
Pros: Astonishing visuals. Incredibly impressive graphics to the point that I personally am surprised it can even run on a PlayStation 4. Also applies to the animations; very realistic and expressive. Sound Design: Equally as impressive as the visual fidelity of the game. The age and imperfect condition of the weapons are both seen and heard in the rusted chambers of guns, specifically the rifle. Cons: Story & Characters: The first few hours are alright. While Joel does get killed by vengeful ex-Fireflies, his character arc was over and he had served his purpose. From then on, however, the story actively pursues the objective of making the player miserable. The decent gameplay is marred entirely by being forced to play as a despicable character - Joel's remorseless killer - for half of the game and leaves the player either begging for the 10+ hour Abby section to end, or they just quit the game entirely. Summary: Quality graphics can only go so far when the story you're playing is trying to depress you. Every hint of happiness is crushed sooner or later, and reflects well Naughty Dog's mantra of "we don't use the word 'fun.'" Truly, if it weren't for the okay Ellie sections nearer to the start and the wonderful visuals, this game would have a rock bottom score from me.

What can I say, there is nothing interesting about the game. What made The Last of Us so memorable was the beautiful story between Joe and Ellie, and it sucks that they threw everything away. They don’t expand whatsoever on the infected or do they add new ones to the game. The new characters in the game are so forgettable, even do the game expands on them well they are just not interesting at all. It just makes the game dull. If we talk about graphics well if you have a PC the game just looks normal, specially if you play Red Dead 2 with high end graphics. The game play is similar to the first game nothing special there. Now on a positive note, the sound design team did and amazing job!! Finally, I don’t recommend you buy the game at full price, just wait for it to go on sale
It tries to be more than a videogame and comes across as pretentious. It feels like I'm being forced into accepting the ideological messages being shoved down my throat.
Un juego demasiado crudo para cualquier persona, quizá exagerado, todo ha sido mejorado, la primera parte sigue siendo mejor, de cualquier forma es una obra maestra.
sinceramente, una mierda de juego del que solo jugue 2 horas, no pienso seguir un juego en el que matan a uno de mis personajes favoritos de la historia de los videojuegos, que les den.
Extreme **** Joel die just like a fool, saving a stranger later entering in a room full of strangers with a lot of guns, just he and his brother. Man, I can't play it anymore, and Ellie spares Abby, after all, killing everyone to reach her, she just leave her alone and spare.

Oh man, where to begin on this. Background, I am an avid lover of the first last of us, the story was amazing. However, there are a ton of significant issues related to this game Graphics: Graphically speaking this game is amazing it is one of the best produced games for the PS4 that I have ever seen. Grass flows realistically, areas look spacious, etc Sound Design: Again, no issue here, same as the first last of us, detailed and perfect. Sounds are realistic, everything from reactions from personnel and bullets wizzing overhead, death sounds, All incredibly detailed and realistic. Gameplay: The same as the last of us 1, only with the added prone position. Combat is improved, but nothing remarkable. Easily considered mediocre of all the things you can note. Story: The story is disjointed and hot garbage. At the midpoint in the story you have Ellie kill a pregnant woman which evidently affects her negatively despite killing hundreds of people before getting to that scene in graphic ways and using expletives. The game drags on, instead of ending at 15 ish hours or so. This could've been effectively two different games and the motivations dont seem convincing at all. You jump between flashbacks, and different characters Overall: People play the last of us for the story, everything else in the game (gameplay, sound design, and graphics) are intended to complement the story to make it more realistic. The story is an unconvincing, disjointed mess and is a poor representation of what the series could be. Skip it and buy something that remains true to characters and doesnt just write "surprises" into the game to generate views.
Avoided spoilers like a pro... Got the game, and after around 15 hours, i'm done with this and never touch this game again. I won't ever bother to know how this ends (altough playing with the other character is kinda nice, btw). So, yeah, the least i can do for you is to give a warning: TL;DR -> This game is not worth your time neither the money it asks for it. But let's be fair: The Good: - The world looks great!! - Music is SUPERB!! - The voice acting is top notch. - Gameplay is good. It's not perfect, but this is TLOU. Gameplay is meant to be kinda imperfect, but still reflects the atmosphere of the original. The Bad: - Plot Holes. Lots of them. - Character development. Is null at best. (Take this with a grain of salt, since i won't play this to the end). Feels rushed and regressed, compared to the original game. The Ugly: - The Story.... souless at best. You really don't care for the fate of the characters depicted, except for the two main characters from TLOU1. The writing compared with the original feels empty and void. It's like were written by a totally different author. I'm not going to spoil anything here, but since the game is so story driven, the story should have been treated differently. It feels like it was rushed and poorly developed. In this case, you can have the best music, graphics, etc. but if the story fails, the entire experience fails (Reminded me to Metal Gear Solid 2, which happens to have a similar treatment of characters and plot). You can have the best graphics but if the main point is the story, the game fails. And in my case, i just called a day, uninstalled and quit it. Maybe later will look for the ending on youtube or something, but at this point, i'm done with it. Not recommended. At all. (And if you have any disorder such as depression or anxiety, avoid this game at all costs). If you played TLOU1, stick with it, and stick with that ending.
I would’ve liked this game if it were not for the fact that playing as Abby doesn’t go anywhere. It would’ve been good to start the game playing as her right in what are currently and basically flashbacks before Joel has a huge impact on her life. We would play her story until we hear Joel’s familiar voice, but without showing his character model to leave some secrecy. We then play what is the current beginning of the game until we reach the same point of Joel and Abby coming face-to-face and we go back to Abby’s perspective until Abby kills Joel. This would give her story the proper introduction and a satisfying conclusion. Then we play as Ellie as is currently in the game all the way through to the end. This would solve the unsatisfying gameplay conclusions. However, there is still the problem of the story shoving positive interactions from Abby and negative interactions from Ellie in order to attempt to make the player like Abby. This is manipulative and shows the developers knew that the character would be unlikeable due to the story thus far. It’s lazy and shows how little thought was put into the story. The gameplay and graphics can only do so much to bandage a game that has no multiplayer and is thus relying on it’s single-player story.

Graphics: excellent Combat Mechanics: Very Good Story: TOTAL GARBAGE TLoU II is a storytelling game with a survive environment as a background, which means that the story is the most relevant part.
- Gameplay is pretty solid. Visuals are stunning, and are as good as they'll get for the farewell of this console gen. The setting itself is well developed, and a continuously bleak one. - Characters and Plotline are pretty much **** though. - Trailers intentionally mislead the audience, by using wrong character models for Joel. Dude dies 2 hours into the game, and is mostly seen through flashbacks. - Joel and Ellie break character to get the plot rolling. - New protagonist is **** Like the MGS2 twist but you play as a Johnny ****-my-Pants who just killed of Solid Snake and is wholly unlikable. - Did I mention how the game attempts to vilify the previous protagonists beyond belief, while shoving their new one down your throat? - God the sex scene, what in gods name. All in all, extremely disappointing, cannot recommend, especially if you're a fan of the first game. It's like they carefully analyzed all the reasons folks liked the first game and said, "Lets do the opposite of that, it sure will be subversive and thought provoking!".
The story is crap a 2 is just cause no game is really a zero. They killed all the characters developments, no one is gonna like Abby and Joel just isn't Joel. Ellie becomes less cheery and just boring and the love triangle is crap. I wouldn't play this game again
"This game is perfect. The story telling is amazing" well that probably some SJW dude thinking that playing is Abby is better. Well no. Never. Nope. The whole story was ruined in this second game. I didnt enjoy it really. It was just heartbreaking

Poor story, trying too hard to separated it from the last of us 1, telling a cheap revenge story and ended up horrible in so many ways. Too much pushed political correct elements in game which makes people disgusted. Neil Druckmen is the one who is responsible for this mess! It is a shame that others people on the team worked so hard to deliver such good gameplay and visuals.
Прекрасная история про месть, неожиданный сиквел, не по канонам как принято, что было раньше да побольше, уважение за такой подход
First, TLOU2 probably has the best graphics on PS4 Pro and it's not even close. Unfortunately, that's about the only positive thing to say. By far the worst character development and story I've played. Didn't pay attention to the leaks but probably should have so i wouldn't have wasted my time or money on this trash. Last of Us was such an amazing game, can't believe they ruined this.

Overall game is a 3, very disappointing. I will definitely NOT be buying the Last of Us 3. Game visuals a "10" Game sound a "10" Music a "7" (not as good as the 1st one). Game play "5" (still clunky but a little better than the 1st) Story a "0" Pacing of the game "0" Pre-Game Advertisement "0" New video game innovations "0" (nothing new for the video game industry) Moral/Lesson of the game "0" Ending "0"
Крайне посредственная игра. Особенно досаждает сюжет. После первой части, которая ,на минуточку, по версии "профессиональных критиков", стала игорой аж десятилетия! Тут же такого проработанного сюжета и взаимоотношений между персонажами мы просто не наблюдаем. Спасибо за все "сюжетные повороты", а особенно концовку, Нил Дракман. Ты сделал настоящий шедевр. Мало того, что играть в эту игру становится скучно из-за крайне простенького геймплея, так еще и главная составляющая слита в помойку "гениальными" решениями. Игра, конечно, красива, с этим я спорить не буду. Локации, декорации, огромное разнообразие мест - это просто прекрасно. И я все же считаю, что данная игра в отрыве от "отрабатывания повестки" не достойна таких низких оценок, но что имеем, то и получаем.
DO NOT BUY. The plot is disgusting, looks like a Bollywood trash movie. The second half of the game, the greater half... this is nonsense of a graphomaniac.

The first game make you feeling emotions for Joel and Ellie, and in the secuel, they actually make you do some terrible things to this characters, controlling the antagonist BY YOUR OWN. Maybe In the Last of Us III you will have to press botons in a sequences to brutal and slowly RAPE Ellie, because in the Last of Us II we learn they don't care at all about the players feelings and emotions. Causing disgust in the player FOR MANY MANY HOURS maybe is what they actualy want. If you want to feeling Disgust and Hate FOR HOURS I recomend you to play this game, and to go to the psychiatrist.
The game looks fantastic, combat is brutal, the actors do a good job at acting the script given, however... The writing is trash, the story is a basic revenge plot, characters act outside of the rashionality of the.selves from the first game, hardly any new mechanics combat wise, very few assassination animations, very sad game that makes you feel bad with no optimism or hope.
As someone who enjoyed the first last of us 2 this game was somewhat disappointing. Overall it’s a flawed corridor shooter that’s much weaker then the first game and questionable if they should have made the sequel. The graphics and world is easily the best part of the game and is one of the best looking and most detailed console game to date. The gameplay is pretty much copy and paste from the first game with not much new innovation. It has the same craft and perk system, the same stealth sections. The only new editions seems to be the edition of dogs as enemies. The gameplay is good but a little dated but won’t really offer much of a challenge. The Ai is also pretty stupid and typical of modern video games. Story wise the game is a complete mess and at times feels like a badly written fan fiction by a high school student. The story has a strange structure and is a standard revenge story that’s been done since the beginning of civilisation. Ellie is still a well written and interesting character, however the supporting cast is weak and forgettable. Also the game make bizarre choices with regards to Abby, not really giving any reason for the player to like or care about her. Also the story tends to repeat itself and big chunks of could be removed and it would still play out the same. In short it fails to live up to its predecessor and offers very little replay value.
The story and franchise potential is absolutely destroyed. I have finished the game recently, and if you think that the main game is terribly dumped into bottomless pit alongside with all the hopes and love for the franchise - wait until you'll finish the game. The ending is terrible and absolutely demolish everything you loved in the first game. Gameplay is boring and dim after a while (was playing on high difficulty), AI is stupid and the only challenge is the ammo. Visually - the game is okay, but nothing special. Sorry that it have come to this.
Graphics are great but the story is trash. Destroys what I loved about the first game & was hard to finish the game. Very disappointing after 7 years of thinking we would see the next chapter of Joel and Ellie story of survival. This game forces political agenda at every stop at the expense of quality story. It’s like the last Jedi of video games for what it does to these beloved characters from the 1st.

Тут даже и обсуждать нечего, графика, механика, геймплей, атмосфера, все на высшем уровне, тю, ну это же НД и Нил Дракман, сама подача истории, 2 совершенно разные сюжетные линии, которые с одной стороны было очень рисковый ход, а сдругой, очень необычно и качествено, показывают и раскрывают полностью персонажей с разных сторон, да, за время игры будут вопросы, почему, за чем, за что, но проходя дальше и дальше, вы поймёте весь посыл, который нам хотели передать создатели данного шедевра, если вы хотите ощутить на себе сильные эмоции, то ТЛОУ2 для вас. От меня 10
Game just amaze on all levels. Amazing how journalists can sell ratings. Not bad game with tons of problems somehow rated 10 of 10 and even 12 of 10 instantly.
As a huge fan of the original The Last of Us, this sequel is nothing more than a disappointment. While the graphics are nice and the gameplay is smooth, it is all overshadowed by a terribly written story full of plot holes, forced agenda, a bad ending. The mood of the game is nothing but depressing for its entirety. My eagerness to play as Joel and Ellie and continue their adventures were stopped dead in their tracks as quickly as it began, If The Last of Us was the high point in Naughty Dog's career, this is surely the low. It is no wonder why 80% of their team left during this game's creation due to disagreement of its creation. Neil Druckmann and any others involved in this story, writing, dialogue, or narrative, single-handedly ruined it all. It actually pains me to know we waited 7 years for this... but as for my friends and I, this game doesn't exist. The story ended with the original. This is a disgrace
Pushing the medium forward with its ambitious narrative and structure, The Last of Us Part II is a crown jewel of this console generation. The discussion which erupted on Metacritic shows exactly how impactful the game is. It is a must play for everyone that can handle violence on screen. It is not joyful, it is not a celebration of violence. Where other games simply make you feel powerful and realise YOUR fantasies, this one makes you feel as somebody else. For me it 10/10, simply put a masterpiece.



First things first, be really wary of reviews giving the lowest scores - chances are they have done so to tank the ratings! Now onto the review: Firstly, once again ND have set the bar for graphics, sound and acting in a game - these truly are astounding; and really must be applauded - the teams responsible for these aspects have outdone themselves. Sadly though, they have been let down completely by the writers. TLOU2 should not be considered, by any TLOU fan, a sequel. The writers have completely and utterly destroyed everything that you learned to love in the first game. I don't care about character's sexual orientation - that personally isn't something that is on my radar, or something I'd care about; love who you love and all that. But the game is pointless due to its story - rather than create a worthy successor to the first, ND have put forward a nonsensical and boring story - and let's no mention the numerous misleading pieces before released; making it seem that Joel will be in it. I wouldn't be surprised if there will be a huge influx of refund requests to this alone. I tried to laugh off all the comments about the 10/10 reviews being "paid off" - but you really start to wonder if there is some truth to this, the further you get into this game. As a die hard TLOU fan, I cannot recommend this game at all - just keep on walking folks, let the ending of TLOU be the end.
I'm so sorry but the story in this game. .... I really don't know what to say. I'm still kind of angry. First my most likeable character gets killed and there is nothing I can do to prevent it ... I kill people to get to the end and the last hope I actually had for this game is dashed because choice is taken away from me again at the very end. I don't like this story. It makes no sense.
Она ужасная , проходить ее это еще то мучение , постоянная пропаганда , унижение , тупой сюжет , затянутость за добрые 5 часов делают ее рейтинг = 0
the game is amazing, the writers took a unique way of presenting this story and I love that they took this risk, I like the mechanics and graphics of these games. had a lovely experience with this game.
I'm gay and black man, but I hate this game. Why is the story so commonplace. Women soooooo ugly. Death Stranding better, than this LGBTQ game.
I wish i never played the sequel. The game only excels in graphics.. 7 years later.. no game play evolution.. The story is an insult to al the fans who love part one!

It’s a good game expect for the gay thing that is going on which makes no sense for the game design
Beautiful looking game nonetheless but probably not even worthy of the "Last of Us" title. Just doesn't feel as memorable as the original. Good thing I played a borrowed copy.
Una pésima historia giros argumentales bruscos tan solo pata sacarte ese shock.La falla de la lógica en un persona (joel) al que le quitan la lógica de un mercenario a alguien vulnerable y débil en razonamiento.Donde en la anterior entrega nos muestra un hombre que desconfiaba de todos lo que le daba un gran razonamiento para sobrevivir a este mundo apocalíptico donde la confianza carece .Alguien que se enfrentó a muchas personas hasta una unidad militar.Y lo peor la obligación de hacer ver a la nueva protagonista abby como el héroe y al antiguo como el villano por enfrentarse a una resistencia llamada "Las luciérnagas" que no tienen compasión para obtener algo,sin añadir las escenas explícitas y sin sentido metidas de la nueva protagonista,Tanto que parece una obligación tener una empatía o aceptación por esa persona y por último el poco protagonismo,Información de joel en la historia después de estos 5 años me refiero a la integración del persona a la historia.Para terminar un gran apartado gráfico tanto diseño,fauna y jugabilidad

Не интересно. Игра ужасная, которая учит детей убивать. Пропаганда ЛГБТ, также будет плохо влиять на детей, ужасно, игру нужно удалить из жизни.
The Last of Us part 2 is not the game we deserved but the game we needed! This is not a typical blockbuster adventure game like the previous part was. The first part was really good, but the second part just went completely on a different level. If you can't deal with some "facts" then you are simply not ready for this game. Character animations, dialogues, cutscenes, story, emotions, actors play, graphic, environment design, sound design - this game is just so well put together. At the moment, no other game can offer what TLOU2 does. TLOU2 finally brought the experience I had been waiting for years in the gaming industry. I am full of admiration that they had enough courage to create something like that. Easy 10/10 - people only need time to appreciate what ND did. Other piece of works, such as the heart of darkness or apocalypse now, were initially criticized by audiences or/and critics, and are now considered masterpieces. I feel like the same will happen with TLOU2.
A good game, personally I liked it very much It's super well done talking about gameplay and graphics, it entertained me a lot and I won't deny that I recommend it for those who want to try it
This game visually is incredible, so wouldn't be fair to give it a zero as the effort in the graphics is unreal. That being said the story is so poor and the gameplay very dull and boring the years I've had to wait on this sequel and this is the trash that is released :( what a way to destroy your legacy. I've met a game I can't bring myself to finish.
Это просто писец, сюжет и гемплэй ужасен, лучше бы не играл
This game is fantastic simple as that. The graphics are awesome, the gameplay is perfect you can feel the way that the NPCs, the story is fantastic in the end you have a reflection of whats the meaning of revenge and what is good or wrong. The new characters have his own personality and ways to do things.


Обидно конечно! Огромное количество работы слито убогим сценарием и еще более ужасной повесткой. Дракманна в угол за такое непотребство!
Thank you personally to Druckmann that my 7 years of waiting were in vain. Great picture, but the gameplay is not for the 30 hour game. It’s better to keep silent about the plot. It is a pity that such an excellent work of animators and artists will be remembered for such a dull game
If this had been multiplayer only I would have scored it much higher. Visually the game is gorgeous, I loved the gameplay from the first game and this one is very similar. I don't agree with some that it needs to evolve so much when you have dozens of first person shooters that use the same engines and don't feel very different to each other, there was only one Last of Us. If you enjoyed the gameplay mechanics from the first one there's no reason you wont enjoy this one too, I personally love the gameplay mechanics. Unfortunately its impossible to play it and avoid the story, and if you are also a big fan of the first one you will quite likely be hugely disappointed by the direction they take in the second one. It feels very jolting which although I'm sure was their intention, it just takes too much away from the first one and doesn't build on it in a meaningful way. Their treatment of the characters we grew to love in my opinion is just horrible. The inclusion of representation (gender identity politics) feels forced and transparent which comes across both lecturey and unnecessary in a post apocolyptic world whereas games like Dragonage Inquisition were able to include it without having that effect. It also felt a bit immersion breaking to play as a female character that was obviously on steroids with hulking arms and legs - where does she get access to that much quality and quantity of food along with steroids in a post apocolyptic world where people are just trying to survive (the steroid physique is not an exaggeration). To be clear I have no issue playing as female characters and where choice is given I usually do just that, I chose to play as Kassandra on AC Odyssey. As far as Last of Us gameplay goes again I feel that has remained in tact and improved, visually, functionally and shouldn't disappoint anyone familiar with and fond of the first, I would definitely buy a separate multiplayer if that's the route they choose to take.
I will start with the good parts: + Sound design - especially when modifying your weapon the details matter. + Level design - some really astonishing game design, especially in the aquarium. + The "back in time" missions with Joel and Ellie. Then, what I absolutely hated about the game: - Killing main character based on choices he wouldnt make in the first place. 0 logic there. - Abby!!! I honestly felt disgusted playing this character. I had to motivate myself extremely to play as her. There is absolutely nothing to like about her. - Also the whole buffed body doesn't make any sense... Women apparently didn't have any time to shave their armpits, but they do have time to consume steroids. Yeah, makes sense... It felt too forced, but since Abby had to lift **** move **** carry **** and needed to be a woman, oh...lets make her then unrealisticly strong as hell. - The storyline. It felt I was playing a political agenda. This was making the game almost impossible to enjoy. I don't want you to force your thoughts on me, eventhough we may think the same. - The ending. The last mission made 0 sense. I think it perfectly resembles how the director had no idea what the previous game made it so good. In conclusion, I will never forgive Naughty Dog for screwing up such a great game and potential. Please never make a 3rd one.
OK. Мы поняли. Эли лезба. А вторая героиня - каннибал. Другого объяснения её здоровых рук я не нахожу.
Graphics and gameplay are neat, but both the pacing and the story is an insulting abomination a la GoT Season 8 and the last Jedi. Avoid at all costs!!!
Игровые журнализы умерли. Вместе с ними умер и рейтинг этой потенциально лучшей игры года. Отношение сони и псов к игрокам заставляет поставить этой игре баллы меньше нуля, но увы - нельзя. TLOU2 это страшный сон, проснулся и попытался это забыть. Отныне существует только TLOU, лучшая игра десятилетия. Покойся с миром Джо, ты не заслужил такой судьбы. Sony и Naughty Dog покойтесь не с миром!
Очень слабый сюжет, слили Джоэля ради повестки, тупой ИИ, после первой части эту нужно забыть и никогда не вспоминать
A dumpster fire with a burning rotten dog carcass inside, the developers want to present to you as as bouquet of Roses. Human misery simulator, there's nothing redeeming about this game. The only good thing it does is exposing the blatant corruption of payed reviewers. Stick to the first game, and pretend its the last one, Part II will ruin even the first if you play it. Gameplay 7. Graphics 9. Story 0. Overall 0

Game is solid. Doesn't stand up to the hype. Combat is servicable. Slow and clunky. No one really thought the highlight of the original was the combat system, but it makes a return with minimal improvement. 6/10 Graphics 10/10, this isn't surprising. It really is the highlight of the game. Everything that's done is mediocre, but you can experince mediocrity with a very pretty back drop. Level design: lures you into a false sense of freedom, but all paths branch from, and converge on conflict areas that are completely unavoidable. There's little to do in the environment, with most exploration only rewarded with resources. Other than resources the only reward for exploration is the games collectables. If you ever wanted a coin/card collecting simulator, this game is for you! 6/10 Story: hate it. A simple revenge story that could have been entertaining, if the story didn't keep bashing you on the head very well known concepts. Yes, revenge comes at great personal cost... Yes, death and loss is traumatic... Yes, revenge starts a cycle of retaliation... it's almost condescending in it's constant harping on the theme. Almost as if the writers thought they had stumbled onto something new and profound. it falls apart in a final act that feels like all characters just completely lose all pre-conceived concepts and even common sense... and in the final scene it goes from harping on a simple theme, to trying to interject some new motivation that actually needs explaining, but does not. 3/10 I'd give it a 5, which is the average.
Hello. The game disappointed me. Gameplay did not get anything new after the first part. The graphics are bad. Bugs in the game. The plot is just the worst. Not logical, uninteresting, not exciting. Characters are not sympathetic
I feel like this game was made by the king of cancel culture. They took the first game and cancelled everything good about it and rubbed it in your face. I hated this game and was really looking forward to it. Wish I could get a refund. Do NOT buy. The fun is gone. Wont even finish it. It's that bad.
I was expecting another game. Why make such a scenario. Why did you need propaganda in the game world. You had an audience and you lost it. This is your game and you destroyed it. Disappointment.

this game is a perfect example how graphics and smooth animations dont make a good game. the story was so garbage and unsatisfactory that i got bored after the first hour. after the death of the main character of the first game in the first hour, i couldnt care less about the rest of the deaths in the game. this game focused way to much about some political agenda than writing a good story. i really was excited about this game and they certaintly let me down.
Technically the game is pretty good, however, just couldn't get past the awful story. As a standalone game this could have worked but where they went with the established characters just didn't fit what had been previously established.
This is absolute garbage, good graphics and audio, but thats it, gameplay is not spectacular and the story makes me puke...trash, thx naughty dog for destroying the game
I’m sad to say this but I didn’t enjoy the game the way I thought I would. There were many different aspects of the game that just turned me off. The game looks visually stunning and the details naughty dog put into visual fidelity is amazing but beyond the graphics, this game lacks heavily everywhere else especially the story. I could not jump on board with what the developers were suggesting where the story was going and they lost me from the beginning. It’s just not believable what they had Ellie doing, trying to justify it by using a really sorry teenage level revenge story. I’m sorry but this game deserves better writing and more evolved game play! The game play is serviceable but I was hoping for a more developed/evolved and matured last of us. The studio only seemed to have added a few new game mechanics including a dodge button, jump button and going prone. They also failed to add any new enemies outside of the “shambler” which is a really lazy one at best. I was really hoping that naughty dog hit this one out of the ball park but sadly they really dropped the ball on this one FOR ME. Maybe my expectations were too high given it took them 7 years but that’s what I expect from AAA studios in 2020. I was really hoping that the narrative would have pulled me in just like the first game did but I could not find it in me to do so. All the characters were acting so out of the ordinary even the new ones didn’t seem to have realistic decision making. I feel like I’m being critical but I have to be given how big the title is and how bad Naughty dog screwed up. They have all the winning elements but they just didn’t put it together correctly. If they just told a more dare I say “generic” story that we all wanted with Ellie and Joel, maybe this would all be different but this is what happens when you take a risk on going woke and fail. It falls flat, especially because the last of us is such a narrative driven game, having a bad story really hiders itself from being anything great. Anyway, i hope they can bounce back with something better or a new IP that is more engaging and fun. This one wasn’t for me. Sorry...
Игра,которая была самой ожидаемой игрой года,не только для меня,но для многих,игра которую с трепетом ждали многие миллионы фанатов,игра которая дала бы толчок и показала бы игровой индустрии как надо делать игры,оказалась провальной до горечи,сюжет(за 7 лет разработчики ничего лучше не придумали,кроме как,написать эту ересь,а не сценарий),геймплей,персонажи(в частности в моменте игры убийство Джоэла и чудо спасение его брата,горилла-терминатор,которой заставляют насильно сожалеть и сочувствовать,а из Элли делают вселенское зло),вставка огромной кучи собак,которых заставляют нас убивать по мере прохождения сюжета,убийство беременных женщин(что уже перебор даже для меня,не такие тренды должна задавать игра для людей которые будут играть в нее и не лучший пример для подрастающего поколения которое будет играть в нее).Единственный плюс в этой игре,так это безукоризненная игра актеров,которые действительно мастера своего дела и которые воплощали в жизнь больную,омерзительную и местами шизофреническую фантазию Нила Дракмана
I have so many contradictory feelings about this game. TLOU2 is the best out there in many aspects. I really want to applaud the game developers and artists, everyone who put so much effort into this game. However, playing this game was mentally hard for me so that I wanted to drop it at certain episodes. In my opinion, be it a brand new stand-alone game, so many people and me as well would adore this game for its realistic toughness, and complexity of the story. But as it is not one, it will always lose to the first TLOU that rather than demonstrating the gamers painful and exhausting path of revenge and bloodshed, taught us that even in the brutal world of zombies and hungry, desperate, dangerous people a person who lost everything still can find a light can still care and fight for something or someone. This game does not deserve 0-s a lot of people put here. But I would not call it an enjoyable game either. I finished it and I will not return to THOU2 ever again.


This isn’t a truly terrible game but parts of the story just contradict and make 0 sense. I also personally thought the game was unnecessary long as I didn’t care for some of the characters.
SJW propaganda. Nope! Вторая половина игры, там где за Эбби - это кошмар. Жаль потраченного времени.
The game is enjoyable at times. But the story just couldn't let me enjoy the somewhat enjoyable gameplay. Stupid decisions made by the characters just feel.so out of place here.
This review would likely be a bit higher if Naughty Dog didn't intentionally mislead their fans with the trailers. They made it seem like Joel would be along for the ride with Ellie, but instead they kill him off in the first portion of the game. The graphics are nice and the game play is what you would expect from ND, but the writing is cringe and elementary. This is self indulgent drivel and they have essentially ruined the original game by retconning it to death. I just hope my liver can handle the amount of alcohol it will take to kill enough brain cells to forget the Last of Us II was ever created.


Joel is killed and then you play as his killer for hours like what the f**k
Хорошая в техническом плане. Графика красивая, оптимизация, анимация, в этом плане разработчики молодцы. Но как же омерзительно игра воспринимается с идеологической точки зрения. А так, как, тлоу - это в первую очередь игра про атмосферу и сюжет, то это провал. Игру буд-то делали откровенно дети, не понимая буквально ничего, что они в целом хотят показать своими откровенно тупыми решениями.
When Neil druckmann said "we don't use the word fun" he REALLY wasn't kidding. Tlou2 is a betrayal to the original game's character, story, and fans. I should have listened to the rumors. i'll just pretend that this game doesn't exist

Trata-se de um dos melhores jogos dessa geração e me arrisco dizer um dos melhores de todos os tempos! História, narrativa, gameplay e gráficos sem paralelo na atualidade! Parabéns Naughty Dog e a Sony pelo excepcional trabalho!
Омерзительная игра. В которой тебе предлагают влезть в шкуру вонючей немытой лесбиянки. Играть в это решительно невозможно, как по этическим так и по эстетическим соображениям. Утомительный гемплей. Спасает только графика за это ставлю бал.


If you want to continue the story of the Last of us 1 and discover more about the relationship of both protagonists and the moral of the choices of Joel in game 1, dont play this Game. Imagine it in your mind, Will be better, trust me. The story of this Game is so predictable that i knew after the first succes that made the people rate negative this game, Why that happens and how It would end. I had my thoughts and my friend confirmed them, spoiling me. The thing is, i wasnt surprised. And thats simply, ridiculous on a Game focused on story telling. And It feels bad to play this story. It doesnt make you think, when its this obvious, just makes you feel bad playing and uninterested. Extremely bad direction the director choose. Thats the problem, ignore the people saying this Game has bad reviews because LGBT characters, nobody cares about that. We are pissed of with the predictable plot and ruining of what could been a good game
I waited for seven years for this game .. apart from the graphics that they are amazing,the story-line got me so disappointed.. so much that even words can't describe it

Primeiro jogo da naughty dog que merece um ZEROO!!!! E é por causa da história porca e mal contada! O roteirista! Como fica os jogadores que "mataram" o médico no final do primeiro jogo dando um tiro no pé em? Como fica? Nem era pra morrer né, NENHUM inimigo do primeiro jogo morre assim. Como fica aqueles jogadores que atiraram sem ter na intenção de matar aquele médico? E mesmo assim ele desmonta e morre todo estranho? Da próxima vez que for vomitar uma história, aprende a fazer vilão direito, caso você sinta vontade de fazer as pessoas ' entenderem o lado dele". Tome como exemplo o Darth Vader... O povo curte ele.. não odeiam como odeiam a Abby... (E olha que o Anakin MATA CRIANCINHAS!!!!Sem contar a propaganda enganosa do jogo mostrando o Joel naquela cena, onde na verdade é o Jesse que aparece. Tem jogo que transmite alegria. Tem jogo que transmite adrenalina , empolgação. The last of us parte 2 só transmite ódio mesmo. Quando o Joel morre, eu senti vontade de sair correndo já pro final do jogo... E quando finalmente chega.. voces me pedem pra jogar 15 horas com a Abby, pra entender o lado dela? Fiquei agoniado querendo chegar logo no confronto das duas.. e qndo chega, sou OBRIGADO a continuar jogando com a Abby, mesmo depois dela ter matado o Tommy? Que absurdo. Que palhaçada! Que ódio senti jogando com essa vilã sem coração. Depois do confronto DECEPCIONANTE, vocês de propósito dão a entender que ali seria o fim? Deu ódio de novo. Tanto ódio que se tivesse acabado ali.. nunca mais compraria jogo algum dessa empresa! Não me importei nenhum pouco com o conteúdo LGBT retratado.. não tenho nenhuma crítica.. A única crítica mesmo é a história horrível e mal contada. Como ver o lado da Abby? Como sentir pena dela? O que ela perdeu na vida? O pai? Ver o Joel perdendo a FILHAA deu muuuito mais dó, do que ver a Abby chorando. Chega nem perto! Ela perdeu o ex namorado? BEM FEITO porque ela chifrou a amiga!... E só.. o resto dos "amigos" dela, são no MÁXIMO colegas distantes, já que vocês não tiveram capacidade de mostrar o quão importante aquelas pessoas eram pra Abby... Atropelaram a história, ao invés de contar direito os fatos.. e fazendo isso, não deu tempo de sentir pena da Abby, que brutalmente ASSASSINOU covardemente o Joel no mesmo dia que o Joel salvou a vida dela. Essa história é uma sobrevivência, que mostra o quão injusto é esse mundo... Da próxima vez que forem alterar o sentido de uma franquia. Por favor avisem antes, pq assim eu não compro esse lixo.. É o mesmo que pegar uncharted 5 e fazer um avulso arrancar o joelho do Nate, bater com um taco de golfe na cabeça dele até grudar uns pedaço do cérebro, e depois o jogador jogar 15 horas com o assassino do Nate, pra entender o lado dele, e no combate final a gente continuar usando o assassino do Nate pra arrebentar com o Sully... Essa é a história do The last of us parte 2 convertida no universo Uncharted... É isso... Porcaria, se pudesse eu devolvia e pegava meu dinheiro de volta.. jogo com história mais lixo que existe, pra quem detesta injustiça. PASSE LONGE DESSE JOGO QUE SÓ TE DEIXA COM ÓDIO!
It's a good game with good graphics, the story isn't really interesting but Okay and they are lots of repititive gameplay on ur journey. I got bored after 5 hours of gameplay and the let you play as Abby, the antagonist for a damn long time. It's exhausting


I don't wanna be **** and give game zero but game have good graphics And good gameplay like first game but story is trash naughty dog change trailer and change characters. half in the game story go like nowhere (neil) try so hard to make game lounger so people can say game is 30 hours baby. long story don't make story look good sometime ruin the story. that me thought thanks for lessening have good day.
Игра просто супер, жалко конечно что убили Джоэла но всё равно за Элли играть просто кайф

Top notch graphic with good gameplay. Story is not the best, I can imagine why some of the fans dislike it. Though some of the moments really hit me hard. If you can bear with what they did with the story and characters you will like this game. Love the Ellie part and the tactical approach needed for combat. Abby part was a drop in terms of gameplay character progression but it made up with a lot of interesting intro of aggressive combat
To be fair technically and for graphics it is a 8/10. But.... minus 3 for mediocore boring gameplay minus 10 for sony's and ND behaviour with the leaks minus 10 for Neil's BS minus 10 for killing a beloved character and the whole franchise minus 100 for putting in SJW politics down your throat minus 100 for the bs story minus 10 for 10/10 shill media reviews ...etc. therefore minus zero!!! It's a shame, TLOU1 was a 9/10 for me. A rly GREAT game. This one is beyond bs.
Great Graphics, huge advancement in gameplay for video games (played it through). However, I cannot get over nor will I get over how BAD the storyline is. I loved these characters and Last Of Us 1 is my favorite game of all time and I am OK with Joel dying in part 2, but the death was NOT earned at all. There is no way possible Joel's or Tommy's character would have given up information like that to COMPLETE strangers they just met nor would a character like Abby just flip out like that after being saved from Joel. Just bad all around writing from a company that is known for great writing. This was not the game we wanted which is fine, but for god sakes it could have had at least interesting writing. Part 2 LACKS on every level the human aspect which made part 1 so good. The whole game feels forced, not sure what they were thinking when they decided to release this game but it sucks. It feels like Naughty Dog just said F**k you to their entire fanbase. Also, how this game was marketed was misleading as well. I am done with the Last of Us and not looking forward to the HBO show and I am done with Naughty Dog games in general. #JoelandEllieDeservedBetter
wanna start this by saying sorry for my poor grammer skills and punctuations. great graphics fun gameplay just like the first but i play the last of us for the story and i gotta say the story isnt good i wont spoil anything till the end but alot of things in the story plus some really bad pacing issues make this game feel way to long the end is a whole section that didnt need to be there ill give some clarification so spoilers now. so the obvious elephant in the room is joels death its fine to kill a main character its happened in alot of fiction but the way they did it i would call tasteless the first torture him with a golf club but not kill him and this happens after joel saves abby's life then when ellie shows up abby kills joel and Manny walks up and spits on his corpse and insults him it feels like a slap in the face to fans cause it wouldve been fine to kill joel and he didnt even need to have a heroes death but the way they went about it wasnt right either the spit on him and then later on expect you to play as abby and then even later they expect you to beat up ellie as abby its just not right. on a side not abby isnt trans i know she looks like it and i kinda thought at first she was but shes actually just a buff woman as confirmed by the director and others so thw murder of joel wasnt done for some lgbtq agenda. the actual trans character lev or his original name lily was handled very well in my opinion they brought attention to it but only for a minute just like how they handled ellies lesbian relationship with riley it just to give background detail and not to encompass there entire character and i quite liked lev. another thing its very uncomfortable having ellie have sex with dina yes nothing is shown and it cuts to afterwords and this has nothing to do with lesbians it has to do with the fact that we watched her grow up and it just feels uncomfortable to see that its like watching your own daughter have sex you wouldnt wanna do that there were better ways to handle that and once again i wanna point out its not cause there lesbians i actually like ellie and dinas relationship. also the game trys to make you feel for abby but constantly has her be a peice of **** as well and its annoying like joel saves her she kills joel out of revenge, owen is dating and has mel pregnant so she **** owen so the game knowing you would think shes ****ty immediately trys to show her feeling guilty for lev and his sister to try to make her seem like a good person cause she cares the she lies at nora to the hospital saying owen is the one losing his arm not to mention the obvious she cost all of her friends lives because of her ****ty revenge on joel which could have the same said for ellie as well though not every body dies obviously. so at the end the game has you fight abby as ellie which why would you wanna fight the girl that you saved in the first game? Then you proceed to beat the **** out of her as abby, then she lets ellie live and leave time passes then ellie hears about abby in cali then it shifts to abby in cali for a short bit there then back to ellie in cali kill random people find abby fight abby and then see a flash back of joel just sitting on a porch no words nothing then ellie stops trying to kill her and lets her leave the whole cali section feels too long and un needed that whole thing couldve happened in Seattle and been fine. thats all ive got to say not a professional reviewer or writer so please excuse my poor grammer once again.
Such a waste of potential. Stunning graphics, sound and acting, nice gameplay. All thrown away with an offensive story that shows no respect to the source material. This game is ruined because of poor writing, nothing else. I had hoped the leaks were somehow fake, but they are just the tip of the iceberg when it comes to the actual game. I will always cherish part one, and try my best to forget this sequel exists.
This review contains spoilers. Joel's death was presented so simply and helplessly that the spirit was not felt that this character was the main one in the first part, it shocked me, and the developers' idea of tolerance is fundamentally wrong and should not be present in games of this kind, my rating is 10 out of 100 10 just for the schedule.
It's very sad how Naught Dog managed to fail to craft a true masterpiece, by letting us play Abby for 10+ hours.
They ruin the story in a game that sells for its own story and you're a genius Sony
What an absolute trainwreck of a game. Extremely lazy writing. Slow gameplay and even worse ending. It's almost like they forgot how Joel acted in the first one and wrote him like some random NPC that didn't matter to the story. Absolutely terrible. Save yourself the money and put it towards something that will give you joy, rather than going through hoops just to return the game once you're left with the disappointment when you finish this horrid game. Please. Save. Yourself.
This game is a SJW’s wet dream. From the first minute you meet the character Abby it starts: they just label the closed captioning as “woman”, when “she” is clearly a man-trans or not. It continues to throw this ideology in the players face by forcing you to play as this character and hurt the characters you fell in love with from the first game. They kill Joel, a beloved character, after trying to prove HE was the villain the whole time. Then Ellie doesn’t even kill Abby when she finally catches her/him? You have got to be kidding me. This game is nothing more than a diatribe on the evils of straight white males. Even if that was their goal they could have made a good story to go along with it; but they butchered the first game and the 2nd by how bad it was. Terrible dialogue, hardcore sex scenes, forgettable new characters. I could go on and on. Do NOT buy this game and support this drivel. Buy another copy of Days Gone. That is a good game. Or replay the first Last of Us.
THIS IS NOT A 0 SCORE GARBAGE, whatsoever. it is a masterpiece with one only problem of being successor to TLOU. try to calm down and actually play the game, dive in the experience, comprehend the details, understand the characters, you will see. don't let hatred blind you, just like everyone else in this game.
Made an account just for this review, this game had the potential to be epic, instead, it has both the worst beginning and the worst ending at the same time. This is truly a magnificent and masterful pile of flaming fecal matter.
lets be honest. for such a narrative heavy driven game, ND decides to kill off a beloved character just to move the plot. im only not giving it a 0 for the game play improvement. But having marketing tlou2 as ellie story is misleading. Side characters are bland and the force of using violence and no 2nd choice to avoid violence is awful. congrats ND you made a very divisive game and a pretentious one too. better hire better writers for the story next time.
Waited 7 years for them to kill the main character and . Everything you loved about the last of us is gone in the last of us 2. How did this script make it to production. A complete disappointment for fans of the original.
One of the best games i have ever played. To rate it this low because you dont belive in the story makes no sense. There Can be no argument this is still a great story, gripping and tense. And the fact that ii can cause outrage like this just proves it’s a 10. They made all of you feel something. That is what gaming is about, even if That feeling is anger or sadness.
I think that this game is a difficult one to understand and it is a game of revenge, it was a risk and for me, it mostly works and the ending leaves it open for a third part which I would love to see happen.

Would've been perfect if it wasn't for the lazy writing in some parts but overall it's really good sequel and surpass the first in everything except the writing
The gameplay is fun, the graphics are currently second to none, and all the sound is done very well. However when you are a story driven game which is also a sequel and it doesn’t coincide with what we know from the original at all it ruins the game. Then you also take favorite characters and completely disregard who they were in the original and lead them to an utterly disrespectful death it’s just piss poor writing. This is the first story driven game I didn’t immediately begin a second playthrough after my first. I actually struggled just to finish it and it was not due to the violence it was due to the story. 7 years of waiting to get spat on what a disappointment.

Very good game. For good reason so all lashed out with criticism on this game. Yes, the plot of course could be better, but the game itself is gameplay but also technically at a height. She is definitely worthy of getting her 9 points.
Un juego con buen detalle técnico pero con una narrativa decepcionante, arruinando la primera parte de este título además de personajes que más que generar interés generan enfado y eliminan la sensación de seguir jugando.
Мужики - козлы! Бабы и ЛГБТ - лучшие! Если у тебя между ног что-то есть,то ты не имеешь права ни на что!

Первая половина игры зашла очень хорошо, играл не отрываясь,а вот дальше мучался с приевшимся геймплеем и абсолютно бредовым, для постапокалипсиса, сценарием. В ТЕХНИЧЕСКОМ плане игра великолепна и однозначна к ознакомлению !
PROS: Visually the game is stunning; I'd argue some of the best looking graphics I've seen in a game. Game play is roughly the same with minor additions. The overall game is hours upon hours long. Level design is fantastic, doesn't feel like a straight line from A to B despite the levels being linear. Some of the voice acting is near-perfect, convincing & humorous . The fine amount of detail in every little thing from the sound of your foot steps, the sounds the clickers make, your victims, etc. is highly impressive! It's clear a lot of hard work was put into this game to make it look, sound and feel like a masterpiece. CONS: This story-driven game lacks a story and was not thought out well - it feels like the people who made this never played the first Last Of Us! The infected/zombies take a back seat which is a huge disappointment! The characters act out of character in major ways. Unrealistic character aspect in a post-apocalyptic world. Some of the characters you come across aren't exactly relatable or likable, others are just boring and don't stand out. Some of the dialogue is boring, cringe-worthy and pathetic. A plot hole around every corner. The overall message the game is trying to send is somewhat lost 3/4 of the way through. If you're a Last Of Us fan I'd recommend playing it....just wait for a price drop/sale or rent it. However, as a fair warning.... I'd advise to NOT step into this game with the first Last Of Us in mind or thinking it as a Last Of Us sequel. Best way I can explain that is by saying The Last Jedi wasn't really a Star Wars movie and you shouldn't approach it thinking it was going to be one. At least that's my personal opinion on the subject. Happy Gaming! EDIT: Originally I gave this a 4.... having just completed the game I have to drop it to a 2. Just plain awful story. Some parts are fun, the rest has this "okay, well I've already started it ....might as well finish it" feel to it.
The Last of Us Part II is primarily a story focused game which I find personally to be very hate inspiring. The story is about revenge, with some absolutelty BRUTAL scenes, the mutilation of Joel by Abby with a golf clubpart of which is done infront of Ellie, Abby then also beats down on pregnant Dina before threatening to slit her throat... and after all this Ellie seeks revenge on Abby for all her brutality but ultimately... lets her go... completely dissatisfying. The game FORCES you to do various things when playing as each character. Ellie: you are forced to kill dogs, murder screaming, wailing people, and even kill a pregnant woman. Abby: you are FORCED to play with dogs, defend yourself against transphobic people, and save kids... this is all easy manipulation by naughty dog to encourage the player to show understanding and become sympathetic towards Abby and in turn start to dislike Ellie, but we're more intelligent than that, as when Ellie had to do questionable things she actually showed regret and remorse, but Abby on the other hand took immense pleasure in dishing out pain. This is NOT a likable character. Not to mention the sheer cheek of Naughty Dog forcing the player to play as Joel's murderer for a good portion of the game. As I stated before the Last of US Part II is a massively story driven game and this story... is a bad story. I will not give it a 0/10 as the graphics are stunning and the gameplay is much like the first installment, which I hold dear to my heart, but other than that this game was a major disappointment. So for this it gets a 3 out of 10.
Story aside, the game is fine. From a gameplay standpoint, it's just fine. It is well crafted but its nothing revolutionary. I'm honestly tired of playing games with such linearity and forces me to go down one specific route or else the game will just prevent you from progressing. I was never a huge fan of the original, but the fact that the gameplay is pretty much identical to its predecessor makes the whole experience just one big "Meh" to me.
The animations and the graphics are top notch. The gameplay is mediocre at best. But the story is far worse than I even imagined after the leaks. And the SJW propaganda (which is super brutal, btw) is not even the bad part. The writing is so trash it's not even funny... What a disappointment!

The Last of Us Part 2 is an example of how not to write a story. The main characters of Joel and Ellie from the first game are broken up early on. While this is a good starting point for pushing Ellie's plot, the issue comes from the split perspectives between Ellie and Abby. It is meant to draw comparisons between the two characters, but it ends up becoming an anachronistic story told from different points of view and different periods of time. There was one point where it was even a flashback within a flashback. The most disappointing part of the story was the ending as it cannot really be called an ending. The same fight plays out twice with the same inconclusive end to it. The biggest issue comes with the game's controls. The only way I can describe it is that it is bad. I found myself struggling against the controls during combat more than I was with the enemies. Aiming on a controller is just awful and most close quarters combats play out like bad quick time events. In the end, I had to turn the difficulty down because of how hard it was to aim with the controller and melee combat was impractical on higher difficulties. The platforming parts of the game are just as bad with the controls. The only thing I can say is positive about the game is the graphics. It looks good and there are seamless transitions between gameplay and cinematics. The environments are nice. Character animations are nice. The character models on the other hand are bad. I feel that they fall into that uncanny valley where the realism starts to creep me out.
The worst Game of All Time...This Game offers you a bad story but Good Graphics and Mechanics..But its less important than the Story..Purchased the Game because Naughty Dog Showed the Audience Fake Clips and Trailers...False Advertisment helped them to sell 4.8 million copies in the first week.Did'nt Expected that Story from Naughty Dog.
everyone gonna ask why I gave this game low score. well....I ain't gonna lie, this game has a lot of good things, but compare to what company's have said, I don't thing the game is that masterpiece. Yes it's better than the first one but still it's not that great thing. but most importantly.......THE STORY. it seems like naughty dog forgot why we liked the first game. The game is lacking so much of the story, it's so cheap and disturbing. I can't believe it's from naughty dog. I know I'm not in the position to say it but, personally I see that naughty dog need to do some serous rehiring before they touch any title in the near future. NOTE : I forgot to mention that they lied in some scenes in the trailers.
I wish the game wasn’t so linear and force-fed I wish that I had the options to choose which route to take and which direction to go choosing between a good ending and a bad ending for more replay ability however this game leaves me no choice and it made me feel sick to my stomach
Play this if you don't care about the first game, AT ALL. It takes a giant dump all over the characters of Last of Us. They do NOT act like themselves. I suspect the story was agenda first and everything had to be forced to conform to it. There are absolutely cringe moments like Niel Druckman's self inserts into the game, no spoilers though. With a terrible story, is the gameplay any good? In my opinion, no. It's just a slight upgrade from the first game which had utterly boring wave after wave of enemy stealth combat. Here, it's way more of the same. This time, the combat goes for entire sections without any witty or deep scenes. The only thing you get is pure torture p*rn. Buy this game if you want game developers to make you feel like a bad person.
If this wasn't the successor to the best game ever made, probably could get a 6 or a 7, but...it is...and it failed badly. The nice music and visuals doesn't hide the weak gameplay and hollow story. And that´s the problem - TLOU never combined with "hollow story". TLOU II made the franchise "just another zombie game"

The graphics/ visuals and sound design are phenomenal. Voice acting varies from serviceable to excellent. Dialogue is very uneven. 7.5/10 The gameplay is essentially the same TLOU 1 with some tweaks. Nothing ground breaking, but works fine. 5/10 The plot / story is where the game fails in my opinion - it begins very strong, and begins to fizzle out as previously established characters make questionable decisions that are almost antithetical to what came before, as well as plot threads that seem to strain believability within the world that’s been created. One controversial death in particular - and the choice to move the plot towards the development of newer, less interesting characters ( with one major perspective shift in particular) makes it seem like the plot was decided early on with the characters just arbitrarily moved around to make it all fit and fails to feel organic at all. Decisions in the storytelling that should come off as bold and smart, come off as half baked and empty. Part of me wonders if it would have been more effectively told as a story completely separate from the first - or, it the team had opted to focus on the new characters right away and reveal twists as the game progressed instead of marketing the game based on continuing the story established in part 1. 1.5/10 As an a huge fan of the first game - and as a player who has played through it no less that 5 times, I can’t help but feel like Joel and Ellie deserved better. Final thoughts - divisiveness aside - the game will certainly be a huge success, but as someone who’s loved nearly all of Naughty Dog’s catalogue and TLOU1 in particularly being an all time favorite, it pains me to say that ultimately, this sequel is extremely disappointing.
Game play a little better than the first graphics are awesome but the story is trash. No character development at all too many plot holes no likable characters except for Jessie. You are forced to play with Joel's killer for 10 hours smh that makes you wanna rush thru it because you find yourself not having fun anymore with her perception of the story and you just wanna get back to ellie perception of it. The whole second half feels forced upon you which throws off your whole experience with this game. the flashbacks are really boring at times as well. the ending makes you keep playing because you wanna kill abby sooooooo bad because she killed people you loved, so you keep at it until you reach the ending. To only find out ellie let's abby go with?
What a way to ruin such an established franchise, did the makers actually think fans would like this? Don't know what they was smoking at naughty dog but I want some
Lets start on good things : Graphics and mechanics. The rest is trash. The way they put main characters to suffer something or die like joel its just a direspect with her personalitis. 10 years or more in Jackson they dont know a **** rout to scape 30 50 zombies accepts a help from a nobody(Abby) And the worst they trie to put her like the one innocent
after a few hours into the game the player loses interest.the gameplay is too similar to tlou and the maps are not so well thought out . character development is very poor. the ending is controversial in a bad way. i returned it to the merchant
За убийство Джоела эта часть не достойна хорошей оценки. Накеченое дермо убило лутшего персонажа 1 да и этой части.
This game (if you can call it that) is a putrid mountain Everest of decaying stinky diarrhea FILTH to be disposed of, burned, and extinguished with piss. Another game that falls victim to "our game is not fun" Neil Druckmann did just what Kojima did with his steaming pile of puke covered horse defacation that is Death Stranding. Worst game naughty dog ever made hands down no contest and it's not even close. worst playstation exclusive of all time by a landslide and it's not even close. Undoubtedly the worst game of 2020. Gameplay is a walking simulator, Spam square simulator, follow the path simulator, open the dresser droor simulator, with clunky janky stiff amateur 3rd person shooter controls that feel horrible. couldn't tell if I was playing a AAA title or a indie developer mobile game from the google play store, the cure for insomnia, and the most obvious, non-challenging and poorly structured bland, simplistic, repetitive filth to ever exist. it is an outdated boring uninspired disappointment at best from a mechanical standpoint objectively speaking and that is simply irrefutable fact based entirely off logic. Graphics are overrated at best, Red Dead Redemption 2 and God of War 2018 are better. Story is overflowing with nonsense, coiencidences, out of character behaviour, plot holes, retcons, underdevelopment, mental manipulation, and inconsistencies, worse story than the rise of Skwalker, the last jedi, Artemis Foul, Batwoman, Dragonball super, Charlie's angels, birds of prey, Game of thrones season 8, Batman V Superman, Justice Leauge, all combined and multiplied to the 11th power. Just generic unoriginal predictable repetitive mediocrity that we have seen one thousand times over all around through and through. This is an embarrassment to the name of video games, an embarrassment to the name of playstation. If you own this game please pour some gasoline on it, take a big lighter, put it to your butt and flame fart this filth to ashes. because thats what this is. its a fecal fire. And if you like this game please unplug your console, climb onto the roof of your house, spike that thing to the hardest piece of concrete on the ground like you just scored a super bowl winning touchdown, and follow up with a flying elbow drop off the roof to finish it off, and never even think of touching another video game again because you don't deserve to play games cuz ur not a real gamer. 0/10 0/100 0/1000 HORRIBLE VIDEO GAME.
Absolute trash story...you can't make this stuff up. As a massive fan of the first installment, I just can't believe they went for this story. The graphics are incredible, the gameplay is smooth, but after looking at how things turned out in the story, I literally didn't feel like playing anymore. I got a physycal copy and I'm gonna sell it for half the price. This game isn't worth it.
"La peor secuela de la historia" No se que paso con este juego que lo siento tan diferente al original, la historia parece una satira de mal gusto, con uno de los finales mas absurdos y sin sentido que he visto, literalmente todo el juego fue sin proposito, lo peor es que al saber que Ellie no mataba a Abby al final del juego, sentí que no tenía ningún proposito nada de lo que jugaba, y cuando finalmente llegue al final del juego, tuve de las peores decepciones de un juego, no solo la soltaste cuando estaba colgada lista para morir, si no que ademas cuando ella se estaba yendo, Ellie decide pelear con ella cuando ya esta libre, y con eso en un segundo a otro Abby le quita 2 dedos a Ellie con la boca como si nada, y otra vez uno pensando, "ya no la dejare escapar de nuevo, ahora aparte de asesinar a Joel y mis seres queridos, me quito 2 dedos por este enfrentamiento", pero no Ellie la vence y antes de hacerle justicia a la "venganza" decide dejarla ir, osea que paso de pasar todo el juego por nada, a quedar con 3 dedos en una mano, y ni hablar de la estupidez e inquietud que da el final del juego tratando de tocar guitarra con 3 dedos, es de las cosas mas grandes, bizarras, y morbosas que he visto en un juego y lo peor de todo que cada vez se siente que el juego es solo una tortura a los personajes que cada vez son mas idiotas tomando decisiones mas tontas. realmente no me metere con que no hay multijugador porque solo venía buscando una gran historia, pero termine encontrando la peor secuela de todos los tiempos de algún videojuego, Uncharted 2 se retuerce en su tumba, y hubiera preferido que The last of us 2 hubiera sido el Half Life 3 de PlayStation y que nunca hubiera dado a luz de ser tan malo como lo fue ahora. Si tienen la oportunidad de jugarlo les recomiendo sinceramente no hacerlo si ya jugaron el 1, porque la verdad se siente como si fuera un juego totalmente desligado a lo era The last of us 1
Игра по факту - интерактивное кино. это не экшен, это именно кино, с вкраплениями экшена. И к этому экшену есть вопросы: 1. что с камерой? камера ведет себя очень плохо - посмотрит в DS-серию, как надо делать камеру 2. что с управлением? то не прыгается, то не бьется. то можно бежать, то нельзя. по мобам - фиг попадешь. вроде бы это смесь DS + кино, но для DS слишком плохое управление, слишком. окей - далее - коль кино - значит важен сюжет. ктото топит что мол ЛГБТ - да пофиг, к эту претензий ноль. минус в том, что все очень непоследовательно. вот она пытает, а вот не может выстрелить. вот она валит людей пачками, а потом не может. обе - взрослеют - но все также идут на поводу мести. хотя по факту это все забывает за год. и эти все чувства разносят в клочья кучу выживщих, поселения и прочее. это какая то сказка, но которая подана как реальность. это повествование учит быть непоследовательным, не держать чувства в узде, убивать по первой прихоти и тут же - не убивать. очень все старанно... не рекомендую. это кино оставляет кучу вопросов и удивление... кино как быть нытиком и истеричкой. и это про всех, не только про девченок. и диким дырами в сюжете... вообщем - Детроит лучше. а в это не играете, не надо... плюсы - игра красивая. если бы не злая линейность, то все было бы хорошо... вот и все плюсы.
I finished the game 3 days ago and earned the platinum trophy too just yesterday, it took me some time to process the game and the ending, and in my opinion there couldnt have been a better ending.. and yes one thing i was pissed about was Joels death, its not that ppl are enraged that u killed joel, they are upset because of the way they killed Joel. Ppl should realise that the game revolves around hatred and revenge, and both ellie and abbys story run parallel, at one hand ellie is furious and enraged wanting to get revenge crossing every obstacle in her way and at the other hand Abby is struggling after the stuff that went through, point is NO ONE IS THE GOOD GUY HERE, its the hate and coping with losing a loved one, the ending also in my opinion couldn't be better because if ellie would have killed abby, im sure she wont feel satisfied considering that she saw abby taking care of Lev, plus Abby has lost enough, all her friends family, she wasnt in the WLF anymore and all that, Sure ellie killed all the friends and did violent **** but that was in s fit of rage and anger, thats what naughty dog forced us to do to feel the anger, in the end Ellie was the bigger person cuz she didnt kill abby, in conclusion id giv this game a 9/10, notice how i only talked about story here yeh because if i start talking about the gameplay ill be here all day, the gameplay was **** sick and fun as ****
Le doy un suspenso por la pésima estructura de la historia, y por la malísima resolución de la misma,... Te hace sentir incómodamente mal, y la moraleja que quiere ofrecer es más que una obviedad,... Ahora pretenden dar lecciones!! Además un tipo de lección que cualquier persona entiende desde bien temprana edad!! El 4 es por lo visual, lo mejor visto hasta la fecha, nada lo iguala, y por la maravillosa jugabilidad!


the game is a big insult to the last of us part 1. from lying in the trailer about Joel's fate to the vengeance theme of the game which BTW it does not deliver. the main character goes on the revenge path and sees the consequences of her action but the other main character nope. IT does what IT wants and no consequences for her action. I never played a story game for it's visual so it does not matter if the graphic is good.
Let me start out by saying that a lot of work was put into this game and that is why I think this game would've been a great multiplayer game. It is dark and some scenes are pretty intense. Unfortunately though, this game is very poorly written and the ending was disappointing. I think most people would agree the if the sequence of events in this game were different, it would've been a little more enjoyable. I really enjoyed the first game and would recommend that anybody that hasn't played yet, do so. This sequel just didn't live up to expectations and because of that I'm giving it a bad rating.
I waited this game so much time... But they killed the true essence in the last of us. The graphic is very good I give it 10 only for that but the story is 0 points. I played the last of us 7 years ago and I very enjoyed it because the story was good and it was funny the joel and ellie's relashionship. They were like father and daughter. So we waited 7 years for this 2. It doesn't matter the Abby's story and we don't want to play her. She killed the true main character in this game... We want revenge him. And you block us. Always. In the end ellie lost all while Abby won. So this is not the last of us... This game don't exist for me.
The Last of Us 2 has one of the most disappointing stories from a Triple A game I have ever seen, that ultimately ends on a sour note, with the entire journey being pointless. The entire basis is its a revenge story. The main character Ellie journeys hundreds of miles, murders countless people, gets people she cares about hurt and killed all so she can kill one particular person, and when she finally get the chance at the end, she changes her mind and lets her go, wasting time, effort, and resources. There are many characters, few of which are likable, contrasting the amazing mix of personalities in the first. Your main partner Dina is incredibly annoying, with her only notable trait being her constant inappropriate flirting with Ellie. Stand out characters include Lev, Yara, Owen, and Abby. The writing is mainly focused of the characters relationships with eachother and there is little focus on the Infected or Apocalypse. There are multiple unnecessary sexual scenes that are legitimately painful to sit through. The gameplay is largely the same as the first, with some basic improvements in exploration and combat, such as larger play areas with more verticality, new moves such as a dodge and the ability to go prone. The graphics are fantastic (albeit diminished by the intense film grain) as well as the sound design and voice acting. The game is locked at 30FPS with a Film Grain that cannot be disabled. There is also by far the largest amount of settings I have ever seen in a game making it as accessible as possible for everyone. There are significantly less environmental puzzles and cinematic moments than the original and there's much greater emphasis on combat and scavenging supplies. The game will shift between playing as Ellie and playing as Abby, which have completely different equipment and weapons. The story will often shift time periods like a Tarantino movie which is detrimental to the plots pacing. Overall The Last of Us 2 is not exactly "Bad", but after 7 years it is definitely a below-average disappointment and I have no desire to play it again.
To be clear for an overall experience I don't think this game is the worst of the worst, I think its an OK game. Without including the drama around the game, the thing that turned me off was the story, and no I don't just mean a specific event that happens 2 hours into the game. The story as a whole for me was just not nearly as good as its predecessor The Last Of Us. For starters, the game felt forced. What I mean by this is it did not have an organic feeling that any good story would have. In many instances it felt as if things happened because they needed to happen rather than naturally occuring and this is where The Last Of Us and The Last Of Us Two really differentiate themselves. The controversial scene around the 2 hour mark did feel as if it was one of the many instances of the game needing a certain trigger to start. The event was in no way shape or form clever and unique which really did spoil the moment all together. I would even argue it was out of character and did not bring justice to a certain character in The Last Of Us. Another instance of an out of place event would be at the end of the game. The ending truly left me puzzled as to what it wanted to accomplish. You look at games like the God Of War trilogy which bases its entire story around revenge and is loved by many fans. Why did The Last Of Us Two fail? It's because it is not true to its main capturing theme of revenge. Ellie goes through the entire story wanting to avenge a certain character just to not get her revenge at the very end. This left me baffled especially since the writers did such a poor job on winning my sympathy over the person who killed a certain character. People were left unsatisfied with this ending because nobody cared for the murderer. This underwhelming and unsatisfying story left many unhappy because many love The Last Of Us for its story. That's usually what I value the most when buying single-player games, especially ones made by naughty dog. We were all expecting an engaging story filled with character development and mixed emotions on other characters. All we got was a black and white narrative that failed at changing our views on who was good and who was bad. On the contrary, The Last of Us Two did have stellar graphics which I can proudly say they’re some of the best graphics I have ever seen. The environment you play in is so diverse and beautiful I found myself occasionally just stopping and gazing off to the background. The gameplay was much smoother and more polished than its predecessor The Last Of Us Two. With regards to the gameplay aspect, I did enjoy every moment of combat that this game had to offer and enjoyed exploring the The Last Of Us Two environment. It may seem as my review is one-sided, but I just had a lot to say about the story. Other than that I can confidently say The Last Of Us Two did have beautiful graphics and immersive gameplay that people will enjoy.
Bad history political agenda every where,joe dies,to much gay parts I don’t care about that but i feels like they whant to force you to see that

The metacritic user score counts for nothing, especially after you see all these stupid reviews (all 0). Play this masterpiece, don't listen the hater. Unfortunately it is a game that must be understood, it is not a game for children and it is certainly not a game where everyone wanted the Disney story + Story 10/10 + Gameplay 10/10 + Sound 10/10 + Longevity 10/10 - All the people who don't understand anything about videogames starting from youtubers, streamers and all those who go against us for lgbt, crunch etc. issues
Un juego que viene con la mejora de su entrega anterior, un diseño de mundo que nos permite explorar con mayor pronfundidad, la inteligencia artificial sigue igual de deficiente al igual que la mayoria de los juegos de las grandes compañias, visualmente deja de ser un juego y nos convierte en un film con la cantidad de detalles que este presenta, un juego bastante bueno y lineal pero el tener que forzar que al final juguemos con otro personaje y que nos haga sentir lastima por el personaje, pero en realidad no nos choca tanto como la protagonista de esta entrega, un final de relleno y alargue que pudo haber terminado de la misma forma pero sin tanto alargue, uso de minorias para respaldar una toma de decision que debio marcar pauta.

This game insulted me and disappointed me more than anything else in my life’s my life! I can’t can honestly say I wish this had never been made
I can't get over the death of Joel. They Ruined this story. The game is such a disappointment I don't even want to finish it.
The story is trash. The gameplay is the same of the 1st game 7 years ago, the enemies are almost the same. The AI is stupid. Good graphics, level design and mocap work
este juego tiene buenos gráficos y buena jugabilidad pero lo que caracterizo a the last of us era la historia y de este the last of us 2 la historia me decepciono bastante
Very disappointed and ridiculous story. Fan been waiting for years of a new The Last of Us to play with Joel and Ellie. Who the hell want to play Abbie in the first, she might be okay villain to kill in the game but not as playable characters. Joel death was rush and leave bad taste for fans of this series. Not gonna lie the game look very beautiful but story wide it suck.
Graphics are good, level of detail is amazing. But I think Joel deserved better. Video game industry needs to know that we usually get connected with characters and their choices and last thing we want to see is for that character to die. I don't care about all this agenda thing going around on internet. Don't care main character is lesb or trans, till the time it's a good game with a good story. Last of us 2 compared to Last of us 1 is just plain garbage. I can't believe that both developed by the same studio. Ellie goes on rampage, kills everyone, just to let Abby go, that was like a 10/10 facepalm moment for me. Writer needs to sit down and think what exactly he is trying to communicate with this story. Only character I cared about was Ellie, writer completely failed to make me feel anything about any other character. And why on earth we are forced to play Abby, after she butchered Joel, last thing we need is to play as her. I just can't believe that this game is coming from Naughty Dog, one of the best studio we have. How could they even think this is a great story. It has so many flaws. Let's hope Naughty Dog does better with next IP cuz I am sure LOU IP is dead now.
THE GOOD: -Beautiful post-apocalyptic visual; lush, green environment as set piece. -Gorgeous state-of-the-art graphics -Control and gameplay-wise similar to the 1st TLOU -Very user-friendly shortcuts for accessing map, item, crafting, etc. -Battling the Infected and humans are FUN. THE BAD: -Very HEAVY with political agenda related to LGBTQ and FEMINISM. Too much SJW stuffs that are being forcefully slammed onto players' faces. -Really MESSY in terms of pacing and story direction; it jumbles in and out with flashbacks, the flashbacks are ALL OVER the place. -Unrewarding ending, no joy and satisfaction felt after done 30+hours playing it. THE CONCLUSION: -The game could be (kinda?) saved actually if Neil Druckmann made the game into THREE DIFFERENT STORY MODES rather than combining Ellie's and Abby's stories altogether in one single playthrough. So the first playthrough would be "Ellie's Story", the second playthrough would be "Abby's Story", and the final playthrough would be "Redemption", or "Conclusion". -The game is only worth for RENTING, not buying. If you haven't play the 1st TLOU and just want to straight dive in to TLOU 2, then just RENT IT, don't buy it. -If you collect video games, and you want to add TLOU Part 2 to your collection, be my guest, but it's cheaper to buy the SECOND HAND one. It's not worth the full price.
Low FPS, the story got stale after 3 hours into the game, boring combat after a while, no remarkable boss battle.
Such a let down..................................................................................................................................................................... could not be more disappointed.
The characters are detestable, they fail to create empathy for anyone except tommy. The climax is anticlimactic and makes no sense. For me this game is an astronomical trash. Graphically it is good, the soundtrack is good, the gameplay is good, but the stage design and the distribution of elements in it is horrible.
Gameplay in Part 2 was much like the first but a lot crisper and sharper. Completely submerged myself into the world of the game even though I disagreed with the approach they had for Joels outcome. Not mad he died, just disappointed they didn’t give him a better send off. If they had Abby SAVE Joel it wouldn’t of felt so empty when she kills him RIGHT after being saved. At the end I found myself not wanting Abby to die, even though it was obvious what Naughty dog was doing with petting the dogs, etc. I found myself hoping for a third part. Horrible writing at times but overall, a great game.

There was basically no point in making a sequel just to piss off half of the fan base. If you're going to make a game to with a great story, you better follow it up with a better one. The story in this game SUCKS, but gameplay is decent. It becomes very repetitive very fast as you get later into the game.
Once again Naughty Dog tells a compelling gut-wrenching story that lives in your heart, soul and mind long after you're done playing. Beyond the amazing visuals and fun gameplay, the story is engaging and emotional. Not only does it explore dark themes like vengeance and hate, but also more philosophical ideas of otherness, perspective and ego. It forces you to live with discomfort for some time in the hopes that you gain understanding and appreciation. Sadly, not everyone will understand the journey or the message (which is not simply "revenge is bad lolz"). Despite all the vitriol this game is getting, many of us see what you did there, Naughty Dog. Bravo!

For me it Bad Sequel. story, character development cannot compare with the first.
This game has a lot of bugs. You would think with how long it has been in development they would have worked out all of these bugs and the gameplay mechanics would be fluid. It doesn't seem like the gameplay is all that different for the first version of the game. Overall the graphics and breathtaking landscapes/environment are probably the only saving grace of this game. Make no mistake this is more of a media creation riddled with cutscenes rather than a true game. Many parts are just quicktime events with button mashing. This brings us to the worst part of the game. The entire story is unbelievable. Even if you ignore the "woke" elements being pushed by Naughty Dog it still does not make much sense. If you are expecting a carefully crafted story with believable characters be prepared to be disappointed. The entire storyline is like some sort of fanfiction or comic book like story arcs with supervillains. Overall, this game deserves less than 1 it simply does not reward the player with believable characters or satisfying gameplay. Even ignoring any story elements one cannot see much improvement in gameplay since last of us 1. When you are paying $60 for a brand new flagship Sony Game you expect that the gameplay will introduce new satisfying elements but Naughty Dog falls short. Lastly, it seems the creative direction of this game was a lot more influential in including many cutscenes rather than improving gameplay mechanics.
Gameplay fun. Story garbage. Awful religious bigots out to get the lgbt people. If the US women’s soccer team made a game about zombies, it would be this one.


I like the story, it was brutal, intense and emotional sometimes . The story has some flaws like while playing as Abby a pregnant woman known as Mel goes on a mission with Abby which doesn’t make sense or realistic. And Abby’s team is okay with it. My biggest complaint is about Abby body build in a zombie apocalypse how can u get a big biceps with less supplies around the world. the game play was great bought back some old gameplay mechanics from prequel and some new ones after sometime it gets repetitive.
Amazing graphics, sound and gameplay but the story is just a big pile of dog sh!t, spoiler ahead...... 1st fked up part: 2 fking hrs into the game and the most beloved character from the first game got killed disrespectfully 2nd fked up part: play as the mother fker who've just butchered Joel 3rd fked up part: in the end, somehow Ellie spared the life of that fker after a few flashback of Joel and ended up losing 2 fingers so basically, what the hell did we do the whole game?
отредактирую пост, игра может и не плохая, просто это не тот сюжет, который я хотел, мне не нравится поведение персонажей. Я ждал другого после первой части и очень сильно разочаровался. Несогласен со сценарием и считаю многие решения принятые неправильными. конечно эта игра заслуживает оценки выше, но это пожалуй единственный способ, что бы разрабы задумались, а надо ли так поступать еще! Был бы выбор действия в игре, претензий бы не было! Либо сама история была в духе первой части...в общем меня как покупателя разочаровали.
I have a feeling a lot of these 1 star reviews are from people who haven't even played the game and some from people who own a certain MS console and can't play it. I received my copy 2 days early and I'm now finished. I'm not going to lie the first 2 hours broke me and I found myself very angry and sad about the direction the game was going in, but I ploughed through and I'm so glad that I did. Everything looks stunning it's the best game graphically available on the PS4 Pro. And with a generation that includes RDR2 and God of War that's no easy feat. The environment's feel alive in a way I've never experienced in a game before, the characters feel so real and the way enemies call each other by name makes every kill feel even more brutal. Upon first arriving in Seattle I was really enjoying tearing stuff up, mutilating and killing every WLF member I could find and leaving no-one alive, mainly because of my anger about the event 2 hours in. However the story is so masterfully written that by the midway point of Ellies first section I was already questioning whether any of this was worth all the bloodshed. The way enemies are brutally killed by Ellie was satisfying at first but carry weight the further you get into the game. Then I reached the section with Abby which during the first 2 hours of the game I never could have hated a video game character more, even more than Micah from RDR2. I wanted her to die cruelly at the hands of Ellie. But again Naughty Dogs masterclass of storytelling shines through. We are treated to a wonderful backstory explaining where Abby's hate began and her journey for revenge which mirrors Ellies story and even surpasses it in some regards, by the time you're done playing with Abby her morals and reasoning behind her actions far outweigh Ellie's bloodlust. The talent of Naughty Dog is on show here, turning a character I never thought I could hate more into someone you actually like in the space of 8-10 hours of gameplay is something I don't think any other developer in the buisness could acheive. The gameplay itself is massively improved so much more to craft, bigger environments to use stealth and more angles and avenues to use to your advantage in every situation you come across, not to mention the infected are fantastic in this game. The horrifying clickers return which are as terrifying as ever, The runners are also more deadly in this game. Special mention for the Stalkers which are massively improved in part 2, they hide around corners or in dark spaces and wait for you, and are very clever working in packs to try to kill you. I can honestly say in every way this game really needs to be played, I can see why there is division and I found myself angry and upset after the first 2 hours, but that is how the developer want's you to feel. Naughty Dog want you to arrive in Seattle full of hate and I can promise by the time you finish Ellie's section if you don't feel redeemed by all the bloodshed you must be psychotic. I've never experienced anything across all forms of media that moved me in the way this game has, that includes films, TV series and games. In a world of video games with stick thin plotlines and tireless open world, climb a tower unlock the next part of the map etc, bland games. This stands out by a mile. Really don't understand all the 1 star reviews here, either they've not played the game or a writing their opinion after 2 hours of playing. Funny thing is if Part 2 was the exact same journey story of Joel and Ellie in different locations there'd be another group of people complaining that it does nothing new, and is just milking the first game. Maybe that's what people want nowadays, the same stories over and over again with no shock factor and nothing new to add. This remaster culture we seem to have gotten into in the last 5 years or so is proof of this. I have a feeling that looking back in years to come this will be looked back on as a seminal moment in gaming, although it's divisive and raw, it's interesting. Which is more than I can say for most games

El juego es entretenido, buena ambientación y buena calidad grafica, pero es un juego sencillo, jugabilidad simple, historia mala en mi opinion, creo que es un juego para pasarselo un vez y nunca mas jugarlo, demasiado sobrevalorado por parte de la prensa que siempre le da 10 a todo, es juego es bueno pero de ahi a obra maestra de ahi a obra maestra es otro tema.
The gameplay is solid but exactly the same from the first game. The narrative is a massive let down to the first game. I feel if the story was even just rearranged in its presentation I wouldn’t have been so bored, and apathetic through parts. If the story of the first one is what you love about it, this will be a disappointment. However if you never played the first or you really enjoyed the gameplay more this will probably be fine for you
so the worst game of 2020 is here the only good thing about it ist ist grafik chars are unlikebel story is **** gameplay ist just a railrod of button promps even wores it pushes en agenda nobody wants

The graphics and voice acting are great. The few improvements they made to the gameplay are ruined be the pacing of the story because you end up having more clips than gameplay which is a pity because the first game had the perfect balance of this. The reality is I gave this a low rating because the story is trash and because this is a story based game that relies on you being into the story. It has a few good moments but because they kill a character in the beginning of the game then force you to play as the killer you lose almost all interest. Characters act out of character in order to advance the plot and everything relies on you to accept everything is happening by coincidence which is just lazy writing. The game wants you to be depressed and works goes out of its way to reach that goal which makes it just as hard to build up the interest to finish as much as playing as the villain for 10 hours. It’s a basic revenge plot trying to go over the top with its message that isn’t really unique about The despair of revenge.
Peor Juego de la historia un final de fracaso por favor no vuelvan a contratar a Anita Sarkeesian daña franquicias
Let me just start by saying I haven't finished the game, I've arrived at a certain plot point about half way through and disliked so much what I was playing I put down my controller in disgust. I managed to avoid the spoilers heading into this game, looking forward to what ND were planning for Joel and Ellie. To say I feel cheated is an understatement. On the positive side the graphics are fantastic (although my fan on the PS4 is working overtime) and technically it's impressive. The gameplay mechanics has improved a little from the original but essentially it's the same feel. One surprise though is that large parts of game are rather dull and there's a feel that the game has been padded out to make it longer. However....the story. It's terrible. The game basically tries to deconstruct everything about the first game which was so beloved without any redeeming positives, characters now make completely uncharacteristic decisions just to facilitate certain plot points and the plot itself has large holes in it. Its misery is relentless and the players are constantly forced to make decisions they don't want to only then for the game to make them feel guilty. I feel like I've spent £50 on a game for it to spend hours telling me off. The game apparently is about hate, the only hate I see is ND towards its own fanbase.
The game is basically a fan fic of the last of us 1. Life is tumbler of us. the star wars last jedi seems like a masterpiece compared to this regurgitated slime of a game. On the other hand the graphics are beyond beautiful it can at times put red dead redemption 2 to shame. Combat is still the same which was fine as well. Was this any other game then it could have bin a 5 or 6, but the story was a jumbling mess to begin with but eh. Not sure what exactly happened, when you go from a great game like uncharted 4 to this absolute barf fest.
Shame on Neil Druckmann and Naughty Dog for butchering the last of us, I fully completed the game and the whole story is utterly unbearable bad... With unlogical choices from the main characters. Technically game play and creativity the best I have played, but whoever came up with the story needs a golf club to the head.
This game needs to be played by those who can understand how the real world works but not by those who always want a good ending. If you want such games, go play Disney games, leave this game to adults. You can't understand the game if you don't know what empathy is...

The story is absolute trash it is told in a convoluted way, the caracteres make the most stupid decisions ever, they totally destroyed everything they made in TLOU 1, forced inclusivity, the way they killed Joel was absolutely disgraceful; Abby was the worst charaxcter im the game and yet half the way is you playing as her, the ending sucked ass. The only good partes are the graphics, music, sound design and that they improved the combat a bit, explorarion is good.

Wildly disappointed in the game, with the first part can not be compared. And the critics are all bought to lure people in. Yes even bloggers were bribed
At first, the light departure, the later the challenge is more difficult, even very difficult for new players. Until I had to adjust it to the easiest level, it was still very difficult!?!?!?!?! Mr. Joe died at the beginning of the game The enemy has an unusually strong buff, even to the point where he is no longer a human or a monster. Many episodes detail the obsessive thoughts of the characters excessively. Players are always in focus and cared for to the level of braking. It guarded so tightly that there was no opening 1cm for the player to slip through to the screen
The game's not as bad as other ppl sayin'. I rly think ppl are over reacting at Joel's death , sure his death was bad and stupid but the game's just trying to feel like real life with not all ppl dying in dramatic ways , the game isn't as good as TLOU but it's def worth a try.
What can I say about this game I am disappointed in the direction they went with this game. I did not like the characters and what they did with them. This game got me riled up angry even. that is never a good thing. does this game have any good parts sure, the gameplay is fun you will enjoy killing humans and infected. The world itself looks amazing. it's just the story that is bad and unsatisfying in the end . If you are looking for pure gameplay and just play games for gameplay then this game is for you. If you play for the story stay clear of this game, I myself can not recommend this game.
Graphics top notch but the story felt jarring and disconnected. It's like-god forbid-Nolan's Memento or sonething. Anyway, it could have been a mastetpiece if they tweaked some sections to let the characters grow in thevplayer's hearts, not just throw a death at the beginning for shock value. You cant just make us purely hate a character and then force us to sympathize with it even if its motives are justified.
i dropped this game. Because instead i good visual gameplay is repetative, and the story, heroes is awful, dialogues sooo dummed and whole scenario was written for idiotic childrens.
This is such a negative game! The script is very bad after playing a couple of hours I had to return it. It doesn't make any sense to play it. I should become a lot of happiness but instead, I got a lot of disappointing moments. Is this the game for players? No, this is a game for critics and newspapers.
The game has fenomenal graphics. A very good combat system. It is super immersive and very realistic. But the story is horrible, very poorly excecuted!
Гитара топ, графика отличное, всё остальное засрали. 7 лет ради вот этого?.. Купите игру, обязательно пройдите 1 часть. Поймите, насколько это часть гениальная, старая конечная, но стоит того. А потом купите и сыграйте во вторую часть, и поймёте, почему у людей бомбит. Атмосфера и сюжет сведён лишь к одной теме и не как не развивается, а если учесть, что это не отдельная игра, а продолжение, то у людей закономерно бомбит от того, в каком направлении игра пошла.
While the game looks graphically outstanding, the plot and what they have done with the characters really leaves a bad taste In the mouth. It is a slap in the face of everyone who enjoyed the previous game.
The Good: Visuals and sound are remarkable. Level design is decent. New rope mechanic is nice. The Bad: Fist TLOU story was what made it one of the best games ever. TLOU2 story on another hand is garbage. Characters don't make me care about them at all and the ending is horrible.
Waited 5 years for this game. 1 - Character development is really shallow 2 - Changes previous notions from the last game 3 - The story makes no sense 4 - The story is written in a way that makes you hate it and be disgusted by it 5 - I see what they were trying to do and i see how they fail in doing so 6 - i condemn how naughty dog treated their employees 7 - i applaud the diversity used in this game, i condemn how bad the card is played 3/10

HEAVY SPOILERS!!! First of all, I loved this game. Secondly, I am deeply disappointed with the gaming community - or maybe people in general. The game is daring and it tries to give a realistic presentation of what a post-apocalyptic world would be(like the first game). It ADDS a serious amount of context for the story of the first game. As a matter of fact the first one feels lacking without the context of the second because you get to know the characters’ feelings and thoughts better. The story is indeed a cycle of violence. The fact that Joel dies saddens every fan but it doesnt mean that it is an injustice to the character. Joel did many questionable things. One of them caught up to him in the end thus propelling Ellie to a new adventure. The game shows you that life is a matter of perspective. Was Abby in the wrong for wanting to get revenge and killing Joel? Was Ellie wrong for wanting the same? Did that justify killing other people indirectly involved? Was Joel in the wrong for not letting Ellie die because he viewed her as his daughter but they possibly lost the cure for the infection? All these questions and more are hard to answer and are ethical dylemmas that require you to see them from a certain perspective. So yea, in this realistic brutal world, revenge is a thing, violence is a thing and hatred is a thing. Also the fact that you see Abby’s side is important for the story and vital though I really liked Ellies playstyle way more.(she is more nimble-better suited weapons for me) People crying because Joel died seems stupid to me. The game overall improves in every way. Gameplay is really good and has evovled(and i dont get why some people say its the same). Acting, animations, graphics etc are out of this world. Ending was almost perfect for me, it gives a ray of hope in the bleak world that humanity continues to devastate. I dont know why people thought that this would be Ellie's happy adventures but this franchise was always about hardships and relationships. All in all, some people just dont own Ps4 but xbox, some have problems with lesbians and trans people( btw Abby is not trans she just goes a lot to the gym), some people are really sensitive and had false expectations and some people just like to ride the bandwagon of hate towards something. Most of the aforementioned people havent played the game let alone finished it. Or they are magicians who finished the game some hours after metacritic opened user reviews. We also have an abnormal amount of user reviews..I wonder why. In conclusion. I would rate this game 97-98/100. Its a masterpiece in my opinion. Maybe the best single player story driven game I have ever played. I am just really sad that people are the way the are. Makes me think that the Last of Us part II gives a clear message that applies like a glove to the real world: people are filled with hatred and that it is shown by their actions.
Stunning graphics can't save this game. The story is terrible and told poorly, the new characters are unlikable. Ending pointless. They had a real opportunity to make this game something special, and instead made some very strange decisions with regard to the plot and characters. It seemed like it was made in the wrong order, would love to have developed sympathy with Abby and maybe have her work with Ellie before killing the main reason people loved the first game... To give it a zero is wrong, Objectively the graphics and animation is great, the game play is ok but highly repetitive and feels like a real slog towards the end. You have to credit the developers for the sheer effort that has gone into the game and for taking a risk with the story, it just didn't pay off for me. How anyone can give this a 10 and call it a masterpiece is beyond me, its a deeply flawed title but god bless if you liked it. Picking up the game second hand for £20 or so would be a fair shout.
Fantastic game. Story, game-play, tension during fights, graphics, characters etc. I love it and does not deserve all that hate. I am huge PlayStation fan but I am not positive with a game if it is bad, would be hypocrisy of me. So I recommended! PS: I liked that they come up with something different, something that nobody would expect. I like this in every franchise.

Although ND is still a industry leader with TLOU2 graphic wise, they have sold their soul to the story devil. I couldn't believe that what started out in TLOU with great storytelling, devolved into a stupid revenge tale. Highly disappointed with what was released. This is definately a step in the wrong direction and a do not buy till highly discounted for maybe 10 bucks.
Great story, beautiful graphics. Nice job ND! Ellie's Jorney of revenge started with something that Will make the fanbase mad but Just play the game, Trust me.
This is the HIGHEST Score that suitable for the Game... At fist REMEMBER this game is Story Driven Games... so If the STORY is MESSED UP... That'll make the WHOLE ASPECT Useless... With Graphics, Animation, Sound, that Top Notch, on Story Driven Game but you give the Crappy Story... That's a DISASTER ... Anyone who give this 0/10 is not Helping at all..
Wow, great job Naughty Dog. Thanks for ruining a great story. You have some highly talented developers, but whoever came up with the idea to have some rando kill Joel and then force the player to spend 10 hours playing as this hated, unwanted character should look for another job.
Waited 7 years for this game just to be crapped on. Neil sold out every one of his fans with this terrible story pushing worldviews and gender politics. Unnatural and inorganic storytelling that makes no sense to the franchise. I feel no emotion during any point of this game. Pathetic!
I don't think it would be appropriate for everyone to rate a game only one mark. TLOU2 still has a lot of humanity in it instead of focusing on Joel's death


The pros: Gameplay is really good and fluid Graphics are amazing and one of the best looking games out there The cons: Story is utter crap No character development All the new characters are boring or really annoying They butcher the legacy of the first game and make quite possibly the worst sequel to a video game ever
Listen, Do Not listen to these people, a LOT of them haven't even played the game, but they are so miserable with their lives, that they spend their days trashing things they haven't even tried, and the others went in with a negative opinion due to spoilers.. Douchebags... I will admit, that I didn't like the one major thing that happened, it really bummed me out, BUT these games are amazing, and I literally had more emotional attachment, and feeling during the first six hours of this game, than 100 other games I've played(If EVER at all).. The gameplay is great, they fixed a bunch of the little issues I had with the game, and it plays MUCH smoother, the combat is fantastic, and I CAN'T wait to play it again (Definitely need some sleep first though lol). One scene, does Not make a game bad, and just because YOU wouldn't have gone that direction, doesn't mean it's bad, when you make games, you get to decide what happens, until then, shut your mouths, or go Blog to other miserable People like yourself.. This game tells a heartfelt, incredible story, and there are very few games like it as far as emotional weight.. Again, maybe I wish one thing went another way, but guess what, this is the APOCALYPSE, People die, bad things HAPPEN, if you want the fairy tale ending, go watch Disney movies
Terrible writing and inconsistent from the first game. Extremely disappointed in Naughty dog. I pray there won’t be a third and honestly if you haven’t played it yet just pretend it doesn’t exist. Let me save you the money. Last of us part 2: Ellie = sad angry emo teenager who’s upset her dad saved her life from a maniac. Abby= daughter of maniac who is equally crazy and literally never gets what she deserves. Joel= dead in the first two seconds and never should’ve been in the trailers
The story itself can be okay. However the way of script writing is absolutely poor and not reasonable in many details. The producer also made a misleading trailer which wants to draw more sales. Overall this game only deserves 3/10 but somehow the score has been manipulated to 5/10.
Based on the lou1 this a forgetfull game . Horrible plot the ending is meaningless. I don't think they delivered anything the writing is bad they didn't develop Tommy's character or others .I feel like they pushed way to much the theme of revenge. Even Sasuke would found this appalling.

No multiplayer that the first Last of Us had. I couln't play anymore after just playing 45 minutes into it. They need to remake the events on this game. Graphics and gameplay don't matter if the story completely turns you away.
The last of us: Part 2 It's just a magical and wonderful game from the beginning, I'm caught up to the end, don't be fooled by the comments if you want to play it, buy it and if you don't have any plans to do it better watch gameplays. As Sony's Playstation's console gamer and lover was worth all these years waiting for this game and every dollar spent on it, I can say that a great game to end this generation.

This game is utter garbage, what they have done to the main characters is disgusting. While the graphics are good I knew it was going to be a horrible story by all the media using the same buzzwords like "great game-play". The story is shallow and utterly aimed and pandering to social justice. Would refund if I could
This game is visually stunning while also having great ai and smooth game play. However, while combat is smooth it doesn't really add much.Naughty dog put most of their effort into the story.While the presentation quality of the story is great, with its great level of voice acting from a fantastic cast.The actual story is not one that I personally enjoyed and I cant imagine too many others would enjoy either.Without spoilers the game tries for you to empathize with its villain,However while this is not a bad idea on paper.Naughty dog fails to have you truly empathize for them.The villain never feels like they have ever stopped being the villain, yet the game acts like your suppose to care about them. Therefore it is hard to get behind this idea, and the game suffers greatly because of this.

A lot of people reviewing this game and giving it a 0 is childish. The gameplay hands down is still fun and top tier period. Characters feel weighted like they actually exist in that world and everything looks beautiful. Sound is on point to the voice acting, the sound effects, and the characters were voiced good for what's it's worth. The story, took a turn me and alot of people are not happy about. Abby seems to be able to get away with murder as Elle OUR protagonist gets beat to **** lol A very bold ass choice in direction that was either gonna pay off or piss alot of people off. Me personally thought abby was stuff ( given her massive ass arms lol) but really boring. Elle, idk if I liked her growth in this but **** got dark lol Still worth a play no doubt jus dont expect it to be as mind blowing as 1.
when I started playing part 2, it was up and down for the first few hrs. I hated it and loved it. Now I’m about halfway through the game and it’s the best game I ever played. Ppl who gave up on it after “the scene” are not real gamers and have NO IDEA what they are missing... You can’t watch cutscenes and assume you know how the game will be. I like the game Halo but if I watch gameplay for 30 min I’d wanna kill myself, does that make it the worse game ever??? Most of there ppl rating the game are Xbox players. Don’t listen to it. Pick it up and try it for yourself. It’s a masterpiece and GOTY
**** game i hate it i don't know why i just hate it and i will never never buy it and i don't recommend you to do
The game is absolutely gorgeous, easily the best looking and most polished game on the market for the ps4. The gameplay has been massively improved from the first title and adds a sort of smoothness to combat that was never apparent in the first game. However the game falls short in its storytelling, character development, and theme; all of which were the best features of the first game. In terms of gameplay the game is an excellent sequal, but in terms of storytelling and building on characters from the first game it is a sorry excuse for a sequel following one of the best narrative games to date. If you enjoyed the first game it is worth a play but do not expect it to match the first game in terms of story.
**** game.. Игра гавно . Scheis Spiel Spiel ohne gameplay, häsliche Hauptharaktere, einfach eine entäuschung. игра обсолютно не о чём, не идёт ни в какае сравнение с первой частью, однозначно не покупать, ни за какие деньги.
I never felt the need to review a game, but with this one I can’t stay silent. This is my first game review ever and I hope to make my points clear. Technical aspect: Here is where this game shines, graphics, sounds and acting are just one of the best in this generation, I loved the simplistic gameplay and shooting mechanics (same as the first game), the control of your character without much thoughts, just awesome. Storytelling: I will put it simple, if you never played the first game there is a chance you will enjoy this second game. But as a sequel it’s just bad, destroyed the first game core and characters completely. The storyline changes from a post apocalyptic world adventure where the cure (vaccine) was the focus to a cheap soap opera full of non sense “drama” that leave the player with no satisfaction at all, it’s just a pointless journey. It’s just bad written that desperately tries to cause strong emotions to the player with a lot of script conveniences without having empathized with the main new character (antagonist). It’s “trying” to give the player a lesson by destroying everything we love from the first game (or any game) and here’s the problem for my, this is a game, A GAME that must be fun or satisfying in some way and it’s not. Controversy / Agenda: I have no problem whatsoever with LGBT representation and social inclusion, I even have a very loved family member who is part of that community. I’m agree with the representation of minorities in every field and I’m sure most gamers are too, but representation and inclusion it is not the same as propaganda. There is no need for this product to be primarily an advertising poster rather than a game, that essentially forces all these ideals down the player's throat. This kind of thing creates controversy, division and hate where there never was. We gamers want good games, good stories and not politics on our screens, believe me when I tell you that the vast majority of gamers do not care if our characters are straight, gay, trans or bisexual as long as they are good characters and empathy occurs organically, but do not force it and most important, do not destroy already established characters in the name of politics or an agenda. The entertainment industry is full of examples of characters that did not need to be forced and we all love in a natural and organic way regardless of race, religion, sexual preference or gender. Conclusion: As a game it's ok, it's not trash either. In my opinion it is a game that should be played but not at full price, should wait for a sale, discount or borrow it from a friend, unfortunately I already bought it (day 1) so it's too late for me. I started this game spoiler free, but I will never blindly trust a video game studio again just because of its name and track record.
Glad I borrowed this and didnt buy it. 1. Visually stunning, scenes, environment, sound, all good. That's where it ends. 2. Clunky controls, jump button is an absolute joke. 3. Don't even get me started with the lazy and absurd, lousy 30-hour time-filler. That's not a story. The ending literally proves its meaningless. 4. Destroying iconic characters the entire fan base loves in a disrespectful way and spitting in our faces was absolutely ridiculous. 5. Nothing else changed. New characters and 'gameplay' were boring after the first 10 hours. SAVE YOUR MONEY!
The details and love put into this game is incredible. All the little moments stick with you after finishing the game and I found myself not wanting to leave the world that made me feel so tense and uncomfortable at times. I am on my second play through and I am liking it even more. Also, the improvements to game play, graphics, accessibility, customization, locations, and animations had me in awe. This game throws you through so many emotions that I it takes video games to a higher level of media. I love these types of games and this my "type" at its highest standards.
I played for a god 13 hours of the game I cant play this game any longer . the visuals are near perfect. The game has an amazing atmosphere. The biggest problem I have with the game is the story of the game. First with Joel's death happening after only the first 2 hours of the game by a character you play with through the game along side ellie. Everytime I played with abbie it makes me feel like turning off the game and never playing this game again. The story for this game is trash. If I had a chance for a refund I would definitely get one and not support naughtydog and specially neil druckman for making disasterpeice of a game. Dont buy this game


Wow. Just wow. So I tuned out all the spoilers because I was looking forward to this game for years and I am a huge fan of the first game. I was surprised to see user ratings so low, but oh how right they were. My main issue with the game? The story. What were they thinking with that garbage?! You also play a character in the game that was extremely unlikable. Who the hell wants to play a game with a bad character? Reminds me of the Raiden/Snake switch in MGS2. I wanted to play as Ellie the whole time! Other than that there were ton of plot holes, did Joel a disservice, poorly written characters and a horrid ending. Graphics were great though. As for the gameplay, it was okay. Honestly I expected more. It did not really evolve 7 years later, just some stuff added. Between the horrid story which is important in a game like this and the dated game play, an abysmal 3 out of 10 from me. The games media must have been paid off to rate this game 10/10.
Pura lacração e bugs, se não quer ser doutrinado evite esta porcaria pois é uma clara ferramenta ideológica!
Games are supposed to be entertaining. This game is absolutely the opposite of that. I do not relate and do not want to relate to the characters because they seem FORCED. From the moment I started to play (and I was SO excited for this game)... from the moment I started to play I wanted to quit. Ellie sucks. Abby sucks Everyone is horrible. That’s the world you want me to play in Druckmann? No thanks. I find good things in my world, and I don’t want to be in the headspace of ANYONE in yours. This game is straight up not enjoyable, at all. I don’t care what your message is, and maybe you’ll get a lot of other people to sit through this torture chamber, but not me. I am 100% fine with women characters. Horizon had a strong wonderful woman character who was a joy to play. I don’t care in the least that Ellie is gay, but none of this game makes any sense at all. The characters simply make me cringe. Ellie is hateful. She’s horrible and I don’t like her. I don’t want to be near her and that’s a real problem since I am forced to be her in the game. How can you make a game with a central character who is SO unlikable? Really Naught Dog? The game makes me cringe. It’s sad to me that naughty dog actually thought that this is what fans wanted. I do not know what is going on in this country, but I don’t want to be a part of the same nation as these sort of people anymore. I’ve just totally had it with them pushing their ideals down my throat endlessly, demanding I relate to them. I don’t. I won’t. I don’t care if you ever make games for “me” again. I don’t need to spend my money with you, it’s fine. I truly don’t care at all. There are other things to do. I don’t need this. TLOU was one of my all time favorite games. It was heartbreaking. It was beautiful, and it truly had love written all over it. TLOU2 is an absolute train wreck of SJW meets too high expectations for me. I am in shock that this is the game that naughty dog thought fans wanted. Either that, or (more likely) naughty dog does not care what fans want. They used all of us who loved TLOU by taking a platform we all loved... and turning it into a nonstop lecture on the evils of white men. Oh, how brave. How daring. How boring. This game is being sold. I couldn’t play more than 3 hours of it... and I honestly disliked every minute of it. Congratulations on that naughty dog. By the way, I thought Control was awesome. Female lead, was awesome, great game. I’m 100% done with anything like TLOU2. Feel free to replace me and my dollars with anyone else, Druckmann. I sincerely wish you good luck with your new audience. I’ll be spending time with artists, people, things, that are #1 fun #2 represent characters and worlds that I enjoy. TLOU2 is neither.
OK, here we go. Before I go on with my personal opinion on the game I will say this “It would have been better if I never played TLOU Part II” Where to start….i will simply focus on where the game messed it up for me big time and not talk about how beautiful and how improved the combat mechanics are (they are not).. Naughty Dog simply developed this game for the past 7 years to totally annihilate, wipe out of existence all the empathy, character bounding and LOVE they built on the first game. All that sentiment and intricate relationship that grew in the first game for Ellie and Joel, they just decided that they had to kill it in this game and the worst part: “I think that was their goal”…..It is unthinkable, unimaginable in my precarious mind how Joel, a character that lived in both worlds, a character that since the very first scene on the first game was pray of mistrust when that guard killed his daughter and along the whole first game he is resentful of anyone he does not know, he thought Ellie all she knows in term of the current state of the humankind, not to trust no one NEVER…. And he blindly share all the information to Abby AFTER saving her life and walks right into a cheap ambush. (Oh yeah we will talk about this one later) A COMPLETE STRANGER who just showed up and ended up killing him…and to add insult to injury Naughty dog forces me be that weapon it forces me to be Abby for a good portion of the game…ME the one that has been trying to save them since the get go…. THIS IS HORRIBLE and right at that point in the game I felt I did not want to keep playing anymore. And all this just to be able to fuel the revenge plot that will follow in Ellie’s hands (that until the very end where she had a change of heart)….Abby…. I still don’t understand what was the goal there….relentless evil, pure and many, many times unsubstantiated evil just for the sake of again REVENGE. Not only they showed her as a robot after Joel literally saved her life she brutalize him with a gulf club. And still they try, yeah they try to humanize her by petting dogs and attempting to show she cares about her group, this is one of the worst character developments I have ever seen coming from one of the best teams (if not the best in the world) Abby’s actions are like taken from another universe, they make no sense most of the times and simply are unnecessary. And all this Naughty dog did it by putting you in her shoes, I was forced to harm the characters I loved or the people that they cared about. Time and again I felt like stopping the game and uninstall it, hated every time I had to be Abby not because what she was doing, but because what she was doing didn’t make lots of sense. And for all those justifying Abby’s actions , how am I supposed to feel right at the point where she did what she did I knew nothing of her, I had spent countless hrs. with Joel so no matter what you do after that point redemption is IMPOSSIBLE for Abby. And then when you go through all this suffering destroying what you built in the first game naughty dog DENIES you the ability to kill this despicable character Abby, and Ellie ends up sparing her life “”What the hell ND”””. So not only your whole game have been about REVENGE and senseless brutality but the moment where REVENGE actually makes sense you took it away from me….. I am Sad, I am Mad, I feel horrible Naughty Dog. I felt you had your story to tell and you intentionally carried on with it despite hurting your own work on the first game and most importantly, hurting us gamers as fan of your games and the universe you so graciously created for us. I regret having played the game….. I would like to forget, I would like to stay with that image of Ellie and Joel when they found Jackson.
I hated this game. And I’m truly sad to say that because the first is nothing short of a masterpiece in my humble opinion. Storytelling falls so short of its original mark, only shining in the briefest of glimpses throughout, but prove weak in comparison to dragging misery the rest of the game offers. Additional and old characters are poor here and hard to care about, whether their decision making or lack of anything exciting to their story, I personally found myself rooting for absolutely nobody. So what was the point? Animal violence was messed up as well. No value in revisiting, and severely damages the firsts replay value as well. Shocking... just an absolute horror show and I am sadly disappointed to have to fallout of love with what was one of my favourite franchises. and
This game deserves the drama to be getting on of the most obvious bias review scores for any piece of entertainment this decade. This game isn't as awful as it's made out to be, but it's in no way as good as critics score it. Unless, those critics enjoy cruel narratives with meager characters, this is the game for them. Don't buy this game or rent it, watch it online to save yourself the payment.

Gameplay was never the greatest strength of The Last of Us, but this time, despite some graphics/animations improvement, it got worse - bigger and longer stages of doing the same things will often have you wishing for it to be over already. The story, however, was the strongest thing about the first game. This time it's significantly worse - too pretentious, too preachy and zero player agency, forcing your constantly watch your character make very bad decisions. Looks like the devs are just trying to lecture you about how bad hatred and violence is, and nothing else mattered while writing the plot. They would stick to it, even if that meant having every character in the world acting like some sadistic moustache twirling villain. And somehow they thought that would make the story "deep".

I want to give it a 0, but that's not fair. It's a solid 5 or 6/10 game. Everything is amazing, but the story, and in a story-driven game if the story isn't good, then it's not a good game.
It’s all ridiculous..this story is a joke. Physics are perfect, graphics even better, actors are great, but the story, how it’s written..jesus what a waste of a good game. At the end I was like well after all at least it will end like this...But no, this was just the most unsatisfying ending I experienced like ever in video game. If you liked first part, don’t ever start the part 2 or it will ruin the impression of this game for you forever.
WTF have I just witnessed. 10s across the board. On graphics wise it's atheistically beautiful with landscapes and terrain but on story and where it all counts this is daylight robbery for customers and a smack in the face to fans. IGN and other people should be ashamed. Name calling fans into buying the game. They are companies that offer nothing but terminological inexactatudes.
I think this game have a personal story for each player .story is really sad but in other hand it is beautiful and attractive.graphic and game play are grate.and at end I can say that every one must play this game
игра норм,финал говно, нахера убили джоела, а еще научите подружек лезбиянок брить подмышки

Ok, i really liked it, its a great game visual, and as the gameplay goes, astonashing, its combat ai vastly improved over the next game, now enemies actually are a challenge, storywise i will give it a 8/10,it has its moments, and its preety interesting to see bothsides of a problem, and at the end ellie finally fogaved joel, that was it the cycle of revenge was broken at last, by not killibg abby she let a chapter of her life end
Game looks great and the music is fitting. But for me the story is forced and not that good . I found myself not really interest in the characters like i did in the first game which i still play and love . This game is over all get boring and drags . I found myself leaving it and coming back after playing other games. I wont be interested in a third game.
Just to get it out of the way... Don't buy this, please. Save your money. Now as to what I wanted to say so badly that I made an account just to rate this abomination... In recent memory of gaming I don't believe there has been a game that was more abhorrent and more of a disgusting insult to storytelling in general, not to mention the dedicated fans that couldn't hold their breaths in years worth of anticipation for this game. This game hurt me from a plot stance more than anything I have read and/or played in my life. This is truly, in my mind at least, the most execrable and inept path for the story to have possibly taken. Sometimes giving people what they don't want can be a good thing i.e. Darksouls, but this is the equivalent of paying for bread and getting a handful of crap. A lamentable story drives an actually decent game into the dirt and deeper to bedrock and into the void for an experience that feels miserable, unfulfilling and absolutely disgraceful. So unless you want to be insulted over a 20 hour movie, don't touch this with a 10 foot pole.
This is a game that wants to be a movie so much and it’s just not. No one wants to switch characters so much and no one wants to fight the games hero as one of the last major battles of the game. It’s not clever and the writers aren’t clever and are out of touch or don’t care about why gamers buy games. They used the good will of the community for their own selfish goals and the result is broken trust and a trash experience.

Awesome graphics so it gets a point. Other then that the story is awful and the game play is stale. Brutal violence which I'm good with if I'm captivated with what's going on and it means something but that didn't happen here. To sum it up in one word...Disappointed


Talk about selling a lie, everything advertised was misleading and the story is poorly paced. All of those employees overworked for this? At not one point, anyone thought to say what a horrible mess of a game it is and fix its glaring issues.
Estructura de videojuego es mediocre, tiene mucho gore pero los diálogos son de un juego diferente dirigido a niños de entre 12 a 17 años, su calidad en el gameplay es igual a la primera entrega con algunas mejoras, trata de mantener vigente lo que son las secuencias de pelijuego en rieles disparando a donde indique la camara. El guión es un insulto a la inteligencia porque al parecer la vida vale menos que unas cuerdas de guitarra, tomas los máximos riesgos por el premio más estúpido e insignificante. Gran parte del juego se puede omitir, muchas secuencias y escenas se pueden eliminar completamente y no pasaría nada, no cambiaría nada porque son relleno puro y duro. Personajes odiosos, personaje jugable inútil y es poco flexible a la hora de superar escenarios. Lo positivo es que si resistes y te empeñas a obviar el guión basura, personajes basura, motivaciones basuras, si obvias todo esto, te queda un juego de exploración pasillero sin meta, sin alma, no te dan ganas de respetar su universo y solo tratas de correr para ver si hay algo en el juego que valga su precio. Los gráficos son buenos, las animaciones están bien, la inmersión está más o menos, la IA es mediocre y muy simplista donde se resume en seres sin inteligencia que van a por ti apenas te detecten y los seres inteligentes que te rodean y tratan de flanquearte como patitos de feria, sin cubrirse y enviando perro para ponerte nervioso, los cuales mueren de un tiro sin más, simplemente es muy básico, lo difícil es darles headshot con el maldito dualshock 4. La valoración real debería ser de un 3, puro grafico y mucha exploración sin sorpresas con ningún giro en la trama, es demasiado soso, simplon, la sexualidad de los personajes fue vendida como si fuera importante en la trama y esto es falso, no hay nada de la sexualidad que haga mella en la trama o haga un giro o tenga algún impacto en el espectador, da igual, la trama venezolana de amor me es muy ñoña, está un pelo por sobre el death stranding. Muy mal juego, terminado 100%, no lo recomiendo, es una tontería gastar un euro por el juego, luego si no te gusta el primero, el gameplay te va a gustar.
All these sensitive crybabies hate this game because "ITZ 2 D33P!" Newsflash, you are living in COVID-19 times. It sucks, but are you fine? Probably. So why are you upset you idiots? You also cant hate the plot for this game because its perfect. The gameplay is also incredible. All of you are hating on this game because you are all mindless sheep. The game makes you feel guilt for requirements which is what videogames should do. Overall amazingly underrated and hated by sheep.
This game has many flaws in storytelling and execution.. Graphics and environment are great but that doesn't make up for the way ND chose to tell their story. You simply can't have me play 20 hours killing people and infected and watching Ellie suffer for revenge so that in the end she decides to forgive and move on.... and ffs we get it its 2020 gay people exist just don't force feed it to everyone!! Suddenly I forgive Capcom for RE 5 and 6 after this piece of crap!!
Naughty Dog, never would I have thought you'd do this. Their are few video game studios out in this world that I believe to be "True to their craft". Santa Monica Studios, CD Projekt Red, Rockstar, Insomniacgames & Naughty Dog
So, this is seemingly going against hte majority of people, but here goes: The game is good. At least the game on its own. The story is enjoyable, and while I absolutely hated Abby and hated playing as her, playing her made sense in the grand scheme of thing, which was: You pay a big price for revenge and can get lost in hate. The biggest problem Last of Us 2 has are: 1) It is not as good as Last of Us 1. With Last of Us 1, they set the bar very high, and last of us 2 needed to at least meet that, but it didn't 2) Questionable character decision: Joel told us not to trust any stranger in the first Last of Us. Joel knew not to just outright invite them or follow them into the cabin, and yet he did. Why? Because it was the easiest way of writing it. I didn't feel that was Joel making this decision, but rather someone deciding for him, what gets the job done the quickest and the job was to get Ellie on her path to revenge. If there was no Last of Us 1, this would have gotten a better score from me, but knowing the characters, I don't think they made the choices they should have made based on the previous game. Dina, in my opinion is the best character out of all of them. She is the one making the most sensible choices, the one that fit her the most. Maybe because I never knew her before the first one, but I also didn't know Abby. This game would have been better as a standalone game, and not as a continuation of the first Last of Us.
The game starts decent, then it's getting better the entire story of Ellie, after that sucks horribly, I mean , dude you manage to ruin what could had been an amazing game, with some disgusting history. The gameplay it's great, they added new functions and ways to play that weren't in the part 1, but everything else, it's just horrible. Except for the previous scene of the game, when you can feel the end of the history, that part it's great in what about history concern,but the rest it's just... Don't buy it now, wait until you can get it for free and don't waste your money. What a disappointment.
The game’s audio and visual body of work is amazing. There is 1 good scene in the game and it is a flashback. This is a clearly visible sign the main story is weak. Absolutely horrible storytelling and they took constant cheap shots at you.
If you just play it you'll come to the conclusion that it is an awesome and amazing game. It has a great story that is gripping and gut wrenching. The gun play is excellent. You really get a sense of the weight and power a gun/weapon has within the game. The enemy AI is astonishing. Enemies will flank you and hunt you down. There's nowhere to hide. The graphics and physics are off the charts. There is so much attention to detail within the world that it is at times mesmerizing. Best graphics of this generation I'd say. Simply stated, the game is worthy of the 10s that its received across the board. Don't listen to the people trying to hide their political and intolerant views by trying to disguise it with fake takes and opinions on how the game is. It's clearly obvious that there is an effort to tank the game by a certain group of people. A game with this much production value, careful detail and effort couldn't be further from the zeroes and ones that it is receiving. They most likely read the story and inferred from credible reviews to appear as if they know what the game is about. Don't be mislead and skip the game because of the fake reviews. You'll be missing out on a once in a generation game if you do.
Dont even bother buying this game I've finished it just to see the ending and it is truly just a slap to the face for someone who loves the first game .All the choices the character made are just pointless Garbage that the game want to threw at you and i wont even gonna mention the politics. Overall trash
60$ to play as Joel's killer? who thinks this was a good idea? I paid 60$ to play as a nobody for half-game. lazy plot writing. **** dog **** storyline. I mean, wtf I just play? Why the f do I need to play as Abby to beat Ellie? So many plot holes. We just went from A to B with Ellie and back from B to A with Abby? 60$? really? Gameplay? Laggy, 30 fps drop, Invisible execution, invisible ladder, stuck dead screen, glitches bugs everywhere. I wait 7 years, 7 YEARS for this? you should be ashamed of yourself Naughty Dog
Игра графически - шикарна, сюжетно - очень спорная, самая запоминающаяся сцена - день рождения Элли. Вторая часть игры бесит. Дракман - ты Клюшка)))
Amazing,gripping and tense gameplay. It is an improvement over part 1. Story was naughty dog's ownership and we have to accept what message writers giving us. Humans are enemies of each other over petty matters and few resources. We should realise no virus or contagion is threat to us but we are threat to ourselves
how can i put this together without spoil ,so a story about revenge but without revenge! what a rich story :)

A pointless exercise in brutal violence. Ellie got robbed: No real interaction with Joel, basically turned into a homicidal maniac and then ends the game alone and abandoned...basically it's a game that **** on the legacy of the first by pretending to be deep and emotional. This is the Last Jedi of video games.
I was looking forward to the The Last of Us 2, however I was left bitterly dissapointed with the direction the game took especially after the enjoyment i got out of playing the first one.
The last of us part 2 is a disappointment and a disservice to its fans and the original characters. The story is bad with its pacing issues, story direction, character choices, plot conveniences, and its unfailing ability at destroying everything the first game built, it’s a major disappointment in storytelling. The gameplay is entertaining, every gunfight is an experience and a fun one at that. The graphics are amazing and by far one of the most impressive looking games out on the market right now. It’s sound design and it’s music is phenomenal. But unfortunately a good soundtrack, great graphics, and fun gameplay aren’t enough to overpower the failure that is its narrative and story.
Finally done and got the platinum. As an initial impression. I honestly found this game disappointing and inferior compared to the first title. *Story - 2/10 - With how the story was TLOU1's greatest strength, this is TLOU2's weakest. First, this game showed one of the worst introduction in the game. It showed out of personality from one of its main characters and gave us one of the most disrespectful deaths you would ever see in a game. It could have been much much better but feels too rushed to cater the devs claim of "shock" factor. Moreover, many of the new npc or side character are uninteresting, awful, stupid and is just introduced in the game as a fodder to increase the meaningless death counts that will happen as you progress towards in the end. Regardless such a mess of a writing uncharacteristic of Naughty Dog. Compared to other previous ND games, this game also has some bad pacing in its story and gave an ending which will make you really feel you wasted your time. Beware! *Gameplay - 7/10 - Showing nothing worthwhile new or fresh, the game is still your typical third person shooter with stealth mechanics. The upgrades are still there as well as the gears and customized gadgets. a few new enemies like the dogs and shamblers were introduced but does not really that significant to be considered improving the gameplay. The fact that the gameplay still feels smooth is the only reason its a 7. *Graphics - 10/10 - Although this does not show really beautiful scenery like RDR2 or God of War, its character details and design is where its strengths are. To repeat every model in this is detailed from head to toe, the wounds, the veins, the dirt and the wrinkles in every body of each of its character can be seen. A beautiful and artistic game indeed. *Sound - 10/10 - The sound, music and voice acting of the game is still top notched. The actors are superb in delivering their speeches, the music is fitting for every place you see in the game (I also really like guitar minigames) and the sound of its signature clicker are still very scary and disturbing. Overall - 7/10 Although a still pretty much great game, this game pales in comparison with its first title due to how awful its story is. I don't really mind the diversity of its cast but the execution of its main plot could have been done in different orders which in my opinion could have made the game much much better. Sad that after 7 years this is the game I got. Regardless, it is done and like always, we need to move on hoping the next title will redeem this franchise.
Гениальная, в плане геймплея, игра!! Все остальное тоже хорошо, но меркнет на фоне геймплея...). Ну разве что сюжет так себе, хуже первой части
The story telling in this game was so bad that I made an account to leave a bad review. I never review anything, but I feel like I would’ve been better off just flushing $60 down the toilet. If you’re looking for a satisfying ending, look elsewhere because this one makes no sense. Yes, you become the better man, er woman after the main villain eats your fingers and you think about guitars. You don’t want revenge after you tell the main villain you will kill her as she kills Joel in front of you. You just want to play guitar with your eight fingers. I’m not joking, that’s the end scene.
This game had so much potential yet it wasted it Visuals and Music are best of the generation no doubt there . But the game length, story and pacing are terrible .



characters act way too stupid and out of character characters have dumb motives and conclusions ending is just terrible so disrespectful to the original characters just a **** story in a story driven game.
I wanted to like this. I really did, i loved the original. But i just can't. From a technical point of view the game is stunning. The graphics, the sound, the animation quailty, it's all top notch. It falls apart horribly by the story however. How am i supposed to believe that Joel, a man who in the orginal is a born sceptic of everyone's motives just walks into a room full of armed people, not questing their motives one bit? The same Joel that ran a car over a dude in the first one because he did not believe him to be hurt ( and he was right) Then they go an kill off Joel in a really unstatsfying manner, making you play as the person who killed him for a good portion of the game, even making you curb stomb Ellie. I never wanted to lose a fight in a videogame more badly. Throughout the game we never get an choice to not do some of the horrible actions you do, but the game is all too happy to rub your face in it, when you have to do them to progress in the first place. Then u get to the ending and you dont even get to have sweet revenge, but you let your enemy walk away. She effectively wins and gets all she wanted with nothing you can do about it, and you have lost everything good going for you. It's 1 big piece of badly written misery, with not a single lighthearted touch anywhere. Save your money, stay far away from this garbage fire of a game.
Story is poor, characters are stupids. Game try hard to be a lesson of good thinking and forget to put the gamer in a real story. Scripting make the gale easy as hell. No challenge, no surprise. Too mant inconstancy in the background, too many useless flashback. Illogical ending. "All that dor that ?" Is what you'll think at the end... technically the game is beautifull but the design, character design and lebel design is average.
Terrible story. Good graphics for the most part. Combat is decent. All in all it's a middle of the road game not sure how people are giving it 10 but it shows how out of touch critics are, no game is a ten not even the first I'm this series that gets an 8 from me and this is much much worse then the first game, heck the dlc from the first game is better then this.
this game is worst, doesnt respect anything, characters are now stupid and very diffrent, gameplay is realy great but thats it, I think story is much more important, just look how Druckmann is behaving to community and fans, thats how they behaved to game itself , worst of worst


Absaloutely meaningless story, such a shame, I enjoyed the action and horror segments but between the messy story and weird left social commentary angle it has just zaps it of all life, a dry meaningless story that trys to hard to be edggy and leaves you blue balled, nah I'm out
-Game graphics and level design have improved a lot - 1 point -Music and sound design are as good as ever - 1 -Voice acting is top tier as usual - 1 Gameplay is quite average, it's kinda like walking simulator with some fights (stealth was kinda fun especially in Seattle day 2 which was the game's strongest point). So if the gameplay is not that amazing and fun that means the game is more about the story. Well the story was a nice idea but jumbled up and badly executed and dragged out which hurt the pacing a lot. It's cool that they have big characters as a gay couple that way Ellie had something to care for. But every character had some sort of a political view which was annoying. Basically rating it on the overall enjoyment i can't say i enjoyed it but there are moments that made the score a tad bit higher (flashbacks and such. And the Joel line where he says he'd do it all over again if he had the chance). I played part one for the first time just a few months before part 2 came out so I'm not angry because i didn't wait 7 years. If i were to rate the game on the first 10 hours i would've rated it a 6 but like 1-2h into Abby's part it became incredibly boring. I knew already that I'd find Owen and Mel dead and just to get to that point it took quite a bit of time. Abby's journey to find her friends dead is irrelevant only the outcome is important her part should've been like 3 hours long at most.

Worst game ever. So much disappointment. Boring gameplay, no logic in plot. Technically graphics are good, animations are good. Story is aweful. Bad character design. Bad character development. Plot holes. If you want to see animations and graphics and check the story of this game - watch it at youtube. Otherwise, its just waste of time and money.



After seven years we get a game that has a cast of extremely unlikeable new characters, the gameplay sure as hell is no magnum opus and an ending that makes season 8 of game of thrones look like a masterpiece. Some of the decisions made are completely irrational. There is no real feeling of survial horror in there. The (human) enemies don't even nearly live up the the creepy cannibals from the first game. If you wanna play a zombie game, there are a LOT of better options for you. If you wanna play a game with a good story even trash shooters have better writing. This is the biggest game letdown of 2020.

Amazingly sad story.gameplay is topnotch every aspect of this game is improved.
I've waited so long to play this game only to get disappointed by its horrible plot and narrative. I'd rather play farming simulator than this garbage.
Thoroughly enjoyed the game and was engaged with the story throughout. The Abby storyline made sense and her section of the game made me understand the characters motivations. Game play wise I enjoyed how they improved from the original and the new accessibility features are something that I can see many companies applying in the future. My biggest complaint was that there were too many collectibles. I enjoyed reading the artifacts and the journals, however the trading cards and coins were a little overkill on the collecting. I understand that some people don't like the direction ND went, but I feel it made it a stronger story. Overall, as long as you go in with an open mind then I think many will enjoy the story.
How are you not going to make it an option to kill abby? Literally everyone hates abby, she's horrible.
Игра мне не понравилась. Графика норм, окружение тоже. Но блин, вы зае***и уже заострять внимание на отношениях девчонок! На***а НАСТОЛЬКО заострять внимание на том, что они лесбиянки? Это бесит, и именно поэтому 0, т.к. этот минус перекрывает все плюсы. Да, мне это неприятно, представьте себе. И вы мне ничего не сделаете. Я всё сказал.
Massive positives: - Game play: it's last of us with more things to do and different ways to do it. - Graphics: one of the most beautiful games of this generation - Animation: in game, cut scenes, the enemies, just wow - Attention to detail: they created a city in a full stadium just for a brief moment in the game. - Sound: the music, the atmosphere... - Menu options: photo mode is not a after thought or a patch a few months after the game comes out; - The Cut scenes and voice acting are top tier. - Story - they had the guts to make hard choices, if you are waiting for rainbows and unicorns in a destroyed world like last of us, you may not like this game. negatives: maybe a bit too long, but it's the players fault that we "demand" games to be 20+ hours or "the game does not worth full price." this will change in the future.


Game has a beautiful gameplay and graphics but it has the worse story. Joel was my favourite character and we didn't even seeing him like 2 hours and they screwed the story of Joel and Elli. And also we have to play as Abby 10 hours(The killer of Joel). Thats way this game is not good.
Disgusting. ND has lied and manipulated their fans with their marketing strategy, leading us to believe that Joel would play an important role in the game, by showing multiple game footage in the trailer that is actually not in the game. This is the most disgraceful thing I've ever seen by a gaming company. ND should be ashamed of themselves and should be sued for that false advertisement. This is the main reason why I give it this score, I was manipulated by being told by the developers that this game would be something that it is not. Here is the complete list of reasons why I gave it a score of 0: -> The game not being what ND marketed it as -> The story seems like a rushed out draft at best, not even making sense on some occasion -> There are many plot holes in the story -> Turning the characters we've become attached to in TLOU 1 into idiots -> The explicit intimate scenes (I don't want to watch sex while playing games, this was absolutely unnecessary) -> Unnecessary d r u g s use scenes -> The important amount of unnecessary swearing between Dina and Ellie (which takes Ellie's innocence away and make her lot less likable) -> The intense kissing scenes between Ellie and Dina (A game is not the place for that. And I would make the same argument if it was a man and a woman kissing, I just don't want to see that kind of stuff when I'm playing a game) -> The SJW Agenda I was so hyped for this game. For 7 years now I've been dreaming about the day this game would come out, I was so hyped and excited for it. ND and Neil Druckman have crushed this hype, and it seem to have been their objective all along, making us hate this game, hate this franchise and hate this company. Well done. ND missed a great opportunity of making a masterpiece. Instead, they completely ruined this franchise.
This is a very bad game, the plot of the game is just awful, new heroes are completely uninteresting and banal, the theme of revenge is not suitable for heroes.

What made The Last of Us Part 1 SO GOOD is the story and the characters. The Last of Us Part 2 is a big f*ck you to the fans. This game is 100% garbage!

I am such a fan of the first game and i love joel and ellie as characters. Part 2 destroys what made the first game so special. It feels like a spit in the face to fans of the first game and the characters. Awful story with an unsatisfying ending. Im done with this franchise and im done with naughtydog games.
The low score is mostly from disappointment along with the poor story. I don't mind the bleakness or the revenge aspects. Infact, I like the fact that Ellie sees red after the infamous death scene. But this could have been something so much greater, and Druckmann decided to bait and switch and make statements that fall flat. Other than that, the graphics are phenomenal. Sound design is great, music is fantastic and most technical aspects are on par with anything else out there. Not only is this is the end of the console's life cycle but Naughty Dog had all the time in the world and Sony's blank check to get this done now they originally imagined, so I'd expect it be at this level. As far as the gameplay is concerned, it is almost exactly the same as the first, which isn't necessarily a fault, but it's not great either. But for a narrative driven game, they should have done better.
Overall the game is graphically amazing and has a few good moments in the game. Sound and acting is amazing. Gameplay feels a bit dull and similar to the previous game. The negative comes from the story line. There are a lot of questionable choices and action from the main characters. Doesn’t seem to be the same characters through out the story. A lot of missing storylines needed to be explained but skips. A lot of political in this game when seems to be more a luxury in a world of apocalypse... wished the story was written better and better ending
тупые геи, лесби и прочаяя дичь испортила вссю игру. замечательный пример того как поткакние и послушание всяких неадекватных меньшинств приводит к плохому
Last of us was one of my favorite games ever. When it came out I went in blind into what was one of the most profound experiences I've ever had in any media since then. Fast forward to the last of us part 2. This game is not about the apocalypse anymore, nor is it about people, or love or hate / revenge. This is about a clear cut attempt to make a a story based on social agendas and politics. I've been told that mentioning this is invalidating my opinion on the game. I disagree. I am not a bigot nor do I hate people that are different from the norm. Everyone should have the freedom to be who they want to be. I do not like, however, when beloved and new characters are turned into caricatures who only care about their love life or sexualities and whatnot instead of what is happening around them. I understand if someone wants to tackle heavy themes through a medium available to them, I just wish it was done more elegantly by someone else who knew how to do it properly. Regarding revenge, it is a matter of perspective not right or wrong. You cannot make people symphatize with someone that wrongs them in the worst way possible, even if that person was the best person on the planet. I give it 5 out of 10 because I enjoyed half of this game. For people who say these negative reviews are not genuine, they are genuine. They are made by people who loved the original last of us. And yes, I created an account just to review this game. Every major media are ignoring the glaring story issues, which is why regular people have to do mention them. This is not a masterpiece like the first one. It is a mediocre game with good graphics and gameplay. You are not a bigot if you think the story is lame. You are not a bigot if you think characters are poorly written. This story is not immune to criticism just because it has gay and trans people in it. Having gay and trans people in the game is not the issue here.
The Last of Us 2 is a damn good game in regards to quality gameplay with incredible visuals, animations, sound and accessability options. It unfortunately and occasionally stumbles due to a tired revenge story, poor pacing, and lack of a multiplayer from the original. It's enough to keep it from reaching its true Game of the Year potential that it clearly wants to be at.
This is an absolute masterpiece of a game. It’s an amazing story that will make you feel a wide range of emotions. The different perspectives will have you question what is right or wrong and who’s good or bad. This is a must play for anyone who enjoyed the first game but it’s not a problem if you are new to the franchise, they did a really good job recapping the events of the first game and showing the relationship dynamic between Ellie and Joel. If you do decide to play this game, I highly recommend to play it all the way through to truly appreciate what this game has to offer and the message it’s trying to convey.
The worst sequel to one of the best games ever made. This game spits on everything the first game created by destroying its beloved characters to shoehorn new characters that have no emotional impact at all.
Last of Us: Part II = HOT PUDDLE OF SHART. The only good thing about this game is the graphics. Unfortunately, the majority of that was spent on clip scenes and not actual gameplay. If I wanted another movie, I'd pay the $14 for a ticket to the theater. From now on... I'll be reviewing the creator's list of every game like I do with the ingredients list of food. If you weren't apart of the team that quit ND. Then I will never purchase another game with your name attached to it, you are simply bad for my digestive system.
Jogo espetacular! Foi uma experiência como "Menina de Ouro" no cinema, acontecendo no mundo dos games. Uma história profunda, com personagens marcantes que desperta várias emoções como nunca senti antes jogando um game. Sem dúvida uma experiência singular que me fez ficar refletindo após finalizar o jogo durante algumas semanas. O número de vídeos, tributos e conteúdo do game na internet demonstra o nível de impacto gerado. Parabéns NaughtDog!
What in the world have you done. the year is late 2020 where possibilities are endless, and Naughty Dog releases a game that is so linear and boring that the only people who thought it was brilliant are the brain dead Journalist. The game looks ok not breathtaking or cutting edge, almost the same quality as Days Gone. I don't care one bit about someones sexual preferences, but this game honestly puts you in a cuckold and makes you live it. everything from the killing of a beloved character, to the weird sex scene that made me gag. the writing is that of an under developed child, the story is one of how revenge is bad, but it looses its focus, it was either that or my give a crapper broke the second I was forced to do an activity I did not want to do. Naughty Dog, Journalist, and you Neil are to blame for this waste of energy. I gave it a two because it is obvious the Dev's made a serious attempt but please from now on stand up to them and do not allow this hot garbage to be put into society.
How can someone treat beloved characters like that? No respect to your community, things just done for a shock value and to bring controversy Graphic are nice game play is OK but story is a joke, almost quit the game after the batting and a spit on a corpse of my beloved character... if you want to kill someone like that do it in a manner they deserve, like a noble sacrifice not like this like W.T.F is wrong with you thinking that people will take **** like that and ask for more? Why wen we have lesbian sex camera cuts off straight away, when we have trance/gay sex we need to watch most of it? Either show both property or cut off both at a similar manner... Stop pushing your political agendas, leave gaming out of it... Was waiting for so long for part 2, what a letdown, oh and nice work with a critic scores legit as hell. Thanks to you will never prerecord the game again.
Very bland , very linear , combat/gameplay seems worse , ai definetly not improved. Story makes no sense , characters act facepalm. Only + graphic upgrade and visuals.
I actually had to reset my password for my account just to write this because i'm so disappointed after sinking 20+ hours into this game. I gave it the benefit of the doubt despite seeing a lot of friends and reviewers that have a similar mindset, i made the decision to decide for myself. Boy was i wrong. I cannot in good consciousness recommend this game in any way. Don't get me wrong it is pretty and somewhat well designed but for a AAA title, not so much. This is where the good kinda ends. The story is badly written and poorly executed in my opinion. And i'm not even talking about the current views and spoilers doing the rounds. Just the Established characters are off. Things are very filler oriented, character empathy is forced and strained. Controls in the first game were almost the same but smoother. The upgrade paths are linear and very 'static' in TLOU2. It is such a polarising game, some people wont care and 'fan boy/girl' and say it's amazing, but seriously, the standard is slipping. 2/10 graphics do not a 10/10 alone, game play and story matter too.
The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece. Everyone who is hating on it frankly just doesn't understand good literature or are incapable of empathizing with anything that doesn't fit the norm. Gameplay is amazing. Graphics are amazing. The story is amazing. The characters are amazing. The missions are some of the best I've ever played. Overall, this is one of the greatest games of all time, and in my opinion is even better than the first Last of Us because the Last of Us Part 2 is way more ballsy and does very fresh and excitingly different things in its story that not only shocked me, but gave me an experience I will never forget.
Gameplay Ok, Graphics GREAT, AI feel like the first one, a game that is 7 years old, the story....ohh boy, they make you hear all this stupid argument of how Joel is bad to deconstruct the character to make you feel ok about his **** and coward death, I tried to keep playing but the story didn't get me, unlikable characters and story telling. Great game to play for 10 dollars, really bad decision to buy it for 60.
Game has not an Happy ending but is still Good gameplay/technically wise .
i found the gameplay boring, very little is expanded upon compared to the first game which is incredibly disappointing since that was the biggest flaw in the original. the story is just a complete mess too, it's UNBELEIVABLY jarring that it makes you play as someone you know nothing about for the latter half of the game for seemingly no reason at all, i don't want to know her story, it makes no sense. especially after how the character has already been portrayed as someone you vehemently dislike, by the time i finished the game i was just happy to be over and done with it, it was not enjoyable. gameplay incredibly boring with pretty much no improvements on the first game, story so many holes and flaws and nonsensical decisions, characters dislikeable.. graphics phenomenal, that's all that is good about this game.
After the first game this is so disappointing. The story is horrible. Annoying false advertisement (character you are avenging for is so predictable they have to lie to you). "Play half of the game for the character you want to kill" move does not work at all. Waste of time and money.
The political **** is so bad in this game its cancel culture the game. Also my favorite character just got **** randomly killed just like wtf

Такое ощущение что игра делалась для другой целевой аудитории. Обычно я не против добавления элементов которые не общеприняты в игру и достаточно лоялен к ним. Но в этой игре это раз за разом бросают в глаза. Так же с стороны геймплея проект слабоват - есть пару интересных решений - но в целом игра скучная. Очень сильно проект не дотягивает до первой части.

Game play is good, graphics are great but the story is **** SEVEN YEARS we waited just to play as Abby who kills Joel. I mean kill Joel fine but at least let us play the whole game as Ellie not stupid Abby. The worst part is Abby is badass and hits hard but she should have been a spin-off or something else SHE KILLED JOEL. AND Ellie our most beloved character loses everything including playing the guitar the one thing that reminds her of Joel. So dumb
Did you enjoy the smart, careful, pragmatic, untrusting hero of the first game? Well I hope you enjoy that character being dumb, careless, gullible, and beaten to death with a 9 iron within the first few hours of the game.
Not impressed, waited years for this and its a let down. The graphics are amazing, but the praise ends there, the gameplay is old and doesnt improve on the previous game, the story and characters are a terribe, to play this game after a masterpiece like the first, huge letdown.
Disappointed that these sickos can't make their own games, but ruin established franchises.

Pathetic game progre this game is so bad the fanboys are going to say is good , reality is this , the game is bad.
Last of Us Part II builds upon everything that made the first title a gem of the PlayStation 3. The story telling may not be to everyone's taste as some narrative beats can miss the mark but the gameplay is incredibly satisfying and the quality of the performances and attention to detail is second to none. A must play for any PlayStation 4 owner.

The game is beautiful with environments much better than the original. The open concept section is refreshing but much of the game is the same "on rails" concept which is fairly old for naughty dog st this point. The gameplay itself is better bit gets stale after awhile. The crafting system is pretty good but starting over half way through is somewhat frustrating. The voice acting is second to none. I like some of the subtle aspects they nailed like the snowball fight and guitar mini game but the overall story is lacking. I understand the nihilistic theme but it was overdone with very few redeeming qualities shown in characters like other naughty dog titles. It was also too long. The third act was nearly pointless as well as the rescue section. Being a story driven game a choppy, overdrawn story with less relatable characters hurts the game greatly.
Very minor spoilers Graphics and jogability are ok. The story is very bad, and the writing is very poor. Ellie and Tonny are not consistent, The game makes you play with the "villain" trying to make you like her... for, it didnt worked. I didnt care for her or for the other characters in her story.. they are all boring as hell, add nothing to almost nothing to the storey and takes a whole 12 hours to pass by... There is a "boss" fight when you are controlling the "Villain" and you must win Ellie... that was the dumbest thing I've ever saw in a game. After this fight, Ellie loose and the game should come to an end, but it didnt. It makes very little sense, but Ellie goes after the "villain" again and the ending is VERY disapponting.
TLOU2 visually and cinematically is a masterpiece and unfortunately that's about as far as it goes in the end. The gameplay is well honestly it didn't do much to change or enhance what was already present from the first game in any meaningful way. Sure its smooth, can be fun and of course well done for what it is but that was to be expected I would think. This game franchise from day one for me has always been about the story. Unfortunately I found this story to be very poorly paced and delivered the big moments in a way that even though you want to sympathize with the characters involved you just can't because the new characters didn't get the same treatment and ND storytelling magic (That use used to be known for) that Joel, Tommy and Sarah got in the first game where in the first 20 minutes you went through so many emotions and it left you crying like a baby before the game actually even starts. Because of that and the fact that the big moment happens so quickly you have almost no time to build a true emotional bond with the new characters and all you can do is hate them and every action the game forces you to take there after all the way up to the end where the payoff is nil of any meaning to all that came before. It's not a good or unique revenge story in the end if anything it pushes the revenge to long and too hard for the ending to be what it was. It's not even unique to a world where half the population are now fungus zombies and saddest of all they take a backseat to the entire story of this game and might as well not even exist.
I thought all the rumors and spoilers weren’t true but holy moly is this game a dumpster fire. They were all true. Also Abby is a man not a woman.
All the mainstream claims of user reviews aside, I couldn't even bring myself to finish this game. Had they switched the narrative around, this story may have worked, though I still would be angry at how they marketed this story. But the sloppy way it is put together, who the heck wants to play as Abby after you see what she did in the first few hours?! Who cares why? And the lengths to crap on Ellie and her playthrough, while trying to make Abby's portion better? Oh please. And it's so freaking drawn out.I got to the point I couldn't stand playing anymore, and finally gave in to spoilers. Even after the bait and switch narrative in the advertising campaign, trash tactics BTW. Thankfully I did, because I would have been even more pissed had I played to THAT ending after 7 years! I'll pretend this one didn't happen, and go back and play the first when they obviously cared about the story they were creating for Ellie and Joel.
Graphics, gameplay, atmosphere> amazing!! Story and characters missed the mark on so many levels!! Tlou2 is all about the story and they failed. So disappointed...

An epilogue to a masterpiece, The Last of Us Part II is a jarring experience, it takes narrative risks that throw the entire narrative off the rails with no clear direction. It results in a plotline which awkwardly fumbles to its end with little payoff or direction.
Really fun game but some parts of the story aren't that good and I didnt really enjoy playing as abby not that she was boring to play as it's just that the whole time I played as her I was just waiting to play as Ellie again the game is amazing other than some parts of the story but I would definitely recommend this game

the last of us part 2 is a great game. With beautifully detailed graphics as expected from a Naughty Dog game. The combat and exploration are amazing as well. But it can be pretty old over time making the experience too easy since the game has a lot of salvage to find and upgrades with ease. The biggest complaint that is on everyone's mind is the story. It is written well but told in the wrong way. Making people play as a random girl at beginning to kill off a fan favorite character isn't always a good way to debut. Especially since that character growth in the first game felt completely pointless since he didn't felt like the character from the first game. Naughty Dog has shown that they are being run by amateurs who are still learning to become incredible again.

It is pretty, but if you liked the first one for what it was, you will find very little enjoyment out of it, terrible story telling. I'd rather pretend like this game never came out and the last of us 1 was the only gem they ever produced.
Absolutely stunning graphically. Incredible audio design. Top notch level design. The best voice acting in gaming. The best animation in gaming. This is the complete package. If you enjoy combat, stealth, scavenging, and sight seeing in a beautifully rendered post apocalyptic world then you are in for a good time. I had zero issues with the story or structure or pacing. I was glued to the edge of my seat for 55 hours. I spent two days trying to play other games afterwards and they just couldn't compare. So I jumped right back in to play at the highest difficulty setting. Easily one of the greatest of all time.
Sorry but this game is a big no from me, I thought it would be good after waiting 7 years, but after that cheesy death of Joel I wanted to quit the game, I still gave it a chance tho, and then it went down hill, then the Abby plays made me sick, then after the ending I couldn’t I just had to go and refund the game, like sorry, but ND you won’t see any money from me for this game, I will continue to support your first TLOU game and continue to support your other games, but not TLOU 2.....I hope that at least that Crash Bandicoot 4 will be good.... EDIT: These positive review bombs omg I can’t tlou fanboys can’t see a good story
Very mediocre game, would be much better if it ended after first half. Stretched to the point of being boring, also behaviour of some of the characters is ridiculous.
TLOU 2 is a great game but not a masterpiece or very bad game.Game has very good gameplay mechanics,graphics and animation details.Especially close combat and combat animations really impresive.But story on the other hand I really hate it and all story npc's joke.I finish this game 2 times already but i can't really say one npc worth the remember.Graphics:10/9-Gameplay:10/10-Story:10/5-AI:10/9-Music:10/7-Performance:10/8

I am only a couple hours into this game but it is amazing. The story has a lot of twists and turns. Also NO LOAD TIMES! Which is amazing. I don’t believe over 3,000 people gave this game 0’s and 1’s.... I smell haters and jealous Xbox fans.

I waited till the 'honeymoon' phase has passed before writing this to see where my feelings stand, but even with some time for it to sink in and reflect on all aspects of the game I really do feel like this game is absolutely incredible in every way. The gameplay is so visceral and satisfying due to incredible controls, level design, sound design, and AI. Small details like named enemies go a long way to making you feel the weight of your actions. The story really stuck with me more than anything. The journey Ellie goes on is intense, emotional and highly satisfying. This game takes narrative risks I have never seen before in gaming, and the acting, animations, and graphics all lend themselves to creating one of the most compelling narratives and character studies in gaming. Please don't miss out on this game. The risks the game took are bold, but I think they were the right risks to take.
Whoever finds TLoU2 good is definitely not interested in the main characters Ellie and Joel of the first game. I was so looking forward to this game, I hoped the leaks were wrong. Unfortunately, they are all true. And I can no longer hear all of these apologists who believe that the majority of users fervently hates this game because Ellie is a lesbian. No, that's not what it is about. I was looking forward to seeing Joel again, he was my main reason to buy the game. Ellie is cool and I wanted to know how she developed. But I wouldn't have bought the game because of her. Why is this game bad? Druckmann threw Ellie and Joel in front of a incoming train. The story is crap, how Druckmann has Joel killed in the game is crap and the end is a joke. This game has a amazing graphic. True. But what good is the best graphics if a game has no heart? For me, neither TLoU2 nor Naughty Dog exists. Man ... who wants me to play one of their games again could pay me thousands of dollars. And yet I would say "no".

Graphics are good, but gameplay is clunky and the worst is story :/ you don't connect to anybody in there, so I don't care while playing. It's really weird game like Druckmans personal fantasy.
"Such a Shame" The original Last of Us was a great game. Alas, The Last of Us part 2 is... not. When you set out to make a game that's controversial and divisive -as opposed to inclusive- this should not come as too much of a surprise. But "it's a bad game" isn't very helpful. Let's see if we can be more specific. I have 5 categories scored 0 to 2 and a personal experience modifier that, depending on my experience playing can add or subtract up to 2, save that it can't reduce a score to 0 or raise it to 10. 0= unacceptable 1= acceptable 2= excellent SOUND: 1. Nothing to write home about but no specific complaints. Nothing that stood out, nothing that caught my attention or that I found memorable or especially well-executed. Just... acceptable. GRAPHICS: 2. It's no Horizon Zero Dawn or Ghosts of Tsushima but it's still visually amazing and has a lot of character. As much as it annoys me given how awful the... actually that's another category. We'll get to that next. It looks really good. STORY: 0. And that's only because my scoring system does not allow anything lower. Everything else can be excellent but if you have a crappy story you'll still have a crappy game. I don't want to go into any specifics here because there's so much to hate that if I started I'd never get the review finished- but it suffices to say that it's amateurish, unpolished and makes very poor narrative choices. And I'm being as complimentary here as I can. The whole thing leaves me with a bad taste in my soul and -as a writer myself, not to mention a fan of the first game- highly offended. CONTROLS: 1. Essentially the same from the first game without any noticeable improvements. They work, but the issues the first game had were never corrected. EXECUTION: 0. This category describes how all the elements of the game come together. Remember how earlier I said that you can have great sound, great graphics, great controls and all that but if you have a crappy story you have a crappy game? Case in point. All the mechanics work, the sound is there and the graphics are gorgeous- but the story is utter garbage and therefore so is the game. PERSONAL EXPERIENCE: -2. And, once again, this is because the system I use will not allow me to subtract more. Where do I begin here? The 'rubbing-your-face-in-it' homosexuality was a huge turn-off for me. If it has been tastefully done it would be different but... that wasn't the case here. The fate of a certain central character from the first game is unforgivably cheap and unsatisfying, the idea of intentionally making a game to be divisive rather than inclusive rubs me the wrong way, the ham-fisted approach to storytelling... well, we talked about that earlier. And, frankly, the way Naughty Dog unethically and intentionally weaponized false copyright claims (though that obviously wasn't the game's fault) would have skewed my feelings against the game even if I would otherwise have absolutely *loved* it. Oh yes, and then there's the whole agenda-pushing thing. But enough of that. Let's calculate the final score. 4 before my personal experience, which takes it down to 2. And, I wish to add, that number does not accurately communicate the contempt I have for this game's story. If it weren't for that, I'd be able to score this game a solid 7 to 8. Such a shame.
Tudo queria produtores falaram do jogo eles cumpriram , em questão de nos jogadores termos os mesmos sentimentos da Eliee durante a história, gráficos ótimos, jogabilidade otima , amei o game
7 years we have waited for this sequel and there have been through those 7 years a lot "Stolpersteine" like unethical crunch times, drivin creative employees aways simply because they had their own mind and finally those leaks by employees. Thats what happens when you let a not a bit creative talented biased activist taking over a well established brand. its sets it on fire till there is nothing left but ashes. i had hope this game may become one of the best games so far but as the leaks showed up i tried whatever i could to avaid them but yeah its the internet and when i got some of it there was little hope left for me that it may be out of context. oh boy when i reached that moment when they killed Joel in a crude and twisted way on top of that as a last act of progressive and truely neil cockmann artistic style made them spit on his remaining with the words: "burn in hell pendejo" while you have to had to play that exact same man/woman "cant quite tell about abbys gender so i call it "it" most of the secound part. Joel was so out of his role, that man that survived so long simply because being cautious and never trusting stranger, just gives all informations to a bunch of stranger which then buchered him. not enough? i was already massivly frustrated and the next shock, that sex with abby which could be based on Greta Thunberg, had almost to throw up my lunch. graphic 6/10 gameplay 3/10 story 0/10 total =2/10
L'histoire est plutôt intéressante bien que trop étiré sur la longueur , c'est dommage, le gameplay est efficace bien qu'encore un peu lourd ,mais si il deviens trop fluide la difficulté serait bien trop complexe a équilibrer , j'avais des réticences a me le procurer suite a tout le bâclage sur internet , c'est vrai qu'il y a pas mal de minorités dans le jeux , ça n'apporte pas grand choses a l'histoire c'est vrai aussi , Mais j'ai beaucoup aimé Abby qui est un liens très important avec la partie 1 , bref j'attendais pas grand choses de ce jeux et il m'a plutôt surpris dans le bon sens du terme
Mind boggling to understand what they were thinking......THAT 10 hour section made all love for this game die a slow death. Up until that point i had explored every corner and had every collectable....during that 10 hour section i got to the point where i just sprinted through area's, healing when needed......i just didnt care.....
Take it as you will - I wasn't a huge fan of the first game but I at least respected the story and liked the characters. I am a huge fan of the Uncharted series, which is the only reason I picked up this game or the last one. I'm a man of few words, but here goes. If the cycle of revenge is so bad, why does Abby get to brutally murder Joel without remorse, and get to continue about her life as if nothing happened? Why doesn't Ellie get the same satisfaction? Abby even took away Ellie's ability to play the guitar, taking away what was arguably the only everlasting gift Joel gave her, and yet neither Ellie nor the player is given any agency whatsoever in deciding Abby's fate. Naughty Dog should be ashamed of themselves. You have wronged every player and I hope you realise Neil Druckmann is a pathetic excuse for a director. I will not be playing another one of your games.
The story ruined the whole game. They killed a main character horribly. They didn't give him the respect he deserved.
A really great game, and along with Ghost of Tsushima, and Cyberpunk, the best possible way to end this generation. The story was great, it really wasn't what i expected but i'm glad they took this risk. The gameplay is really good, and i really liked how many times the game opened up, and let you freely explore. And to all the haters, who didn't even played the game,and write fake reviews: You are not epic, you don't deserve the choccy milk.
Ein absolut fantastisches Spiel wenn man sich darauf einlässt und verstehen will worum es geht und was die Entwickler den Spielern zeigen wollen. Ich kann die extrem niedrigen Wertungen nach dem Abschließen des Spieles überhaupt nicht nachvollziehen. Es hat sicherlich hier und dort Ecken und Kanten aber ich verleihe meine persönlichen 10 Punkte. Es hat mich wie kaum ein anderes Spiel mitgerissen auch wenn einige Entscheidungen im Storyverlauf nicht meine wären. Aber darum geht es ja...es sind die von den Charakteren in dieser Geschichte.

This game is actually amazing. Powerful and beautiful visuals. People are just mad their are strong women and significant LGBT representation. Don’t believe the butt hurt MAGA trollz.
After spending some time with this game, I'm really disappointed. The gameplay is 98% identical to the first game, and so much control is taken from you as the game often forces you to slowly walk constantly. This is outdated and frustrating design. In terms of the story, it drags too much. Naughty Dog really wants you to be emotionally absorbed in the plot, but they simply don't know when to stop. It gets boring watching generic character dramas play out, and certain of these characters have been dumbed down from the last game as part of a frustratingly bad plot device. I won't comment on the LGBTQ aspect, it honestly didn't irritate me the way everything else did. Certain moments are beautiful and the game looks pristine. But unfortunately it feels too dated and the story suffers from bad writing. Naughty Dog should have kept the first game as the only one. This was unnecessary.

Elevating everything about the first game and making bold decisions with characters development. Excellent storytelling pulls it off. A must play for every PS4-owner.
The graphics are great. Everything else is really bad. Gameplay. Just kill violinty people other and other again. Unreal scenario. In a violinty apocalyptic world People are worried about changing their gender and diversity. It feels like unnecessary and artificial. Forcing SWJ political messages to a large public in a Video game is not good because its intertainment, a game not a newspaper. Its an Overton window tactic. The second main character from old game gets killed. Because he is old white man? Second character is women who try is act like a man kill everyone and everything


Tudo que tenho a dizer é que o jogo é sensacional , Joel mesmo tendo morrido fez bem seu papel e ele não era imortal infelizmente , fiquei sentido pela morte dele claro mas paciência , o que dá pra dizer sobre a história é que "cada vilão é o herói de sua própria história !!!! Jogo nota 10 sem dúvidas
Game bom, porém história faltou algo sabe, mais de qualquer forma é o melhor gráfico da geração, já a gameplay não mudou muito do primeiro, um ponto a mencionar são as expressões dos personagens muito boas por sinal.
Dont trust the negative reviews,the narrative of this game is good,little kids are mad about Joels Death and how did this happened.Haters of this game is saying that Joel will not tell to those guys his name-First of all when Joel came to them Abby already know that it is killer of her father,cause while Tommy and Joel where resqueing Abby,Tommy said to Abby that his name is Tommy and it is my brother Joel,and thats it Abby is already know that is Joel.Second-Why did he told his name to the company of unknown people-Cause theve saved his life and after 5 year pause of crimes and violence.Ok lets talk about the plot,in opnion it is Narrative Masterpice,all chacters are like live persons with own psyche and motivations,the game is divided into a two strory lines Ellies story line and Abbys story line,and what can i say,Ellies Story line is like Uncharted 4 Ellie sacrifice all her for friends for revenge like Nathan Drake sacrifices everything for a treasure,and Abbys story line is like a Last of Us Part 1 Abby meet two strangers they resqued het and she resqued them,but after the night with Owen she sees a dream where she sees them died,and she decides to help them,and in the end of abbys soryline comes best level of the game Seraphites Island,and when WLF soliders comes to an island and begin a war with seraphits the island turns into mess and chaotic place,so i love this level.After Abbys storyline she finds Owen dead with Mel and she want to kill the killers of her friends she find out the theater and revenge Ellie for her friends.And waht can i say about ending Ellie coming to Santa Barbara to stop Flashbacks Where Joel always dies ( Read for text book while u are in Santa Barbara and ull understand what im taking about) and when Ellie overcome Abby and nearly kill Abby she sees Joel alive playing on his guitar and she understands that revenge is ended and she wins,but ull ask to me why didnt she kill Abby because she dont to became a monster that killed mother(Abby) in front of daughter (Lev).And when Ellie sees last flashback with Joel one day before his death where she forgives him for accident in the Salt Lake City Fireflies Hospital and we see that Joel is happy for his forgivnes and after it we see that Joel will be not forgotten. Gameplay is super interesting and action elements are breathtaking,weapon customization,stels elements and character animation is perfect.It is a good exapmle of perfect Gameplay. Graphics is perfect i think dont need to say anything. Level Desing is super cool,a lot of covers and safe rooms where u can rest a bit after battle and u can also collect some resurses on level and craft some cool stuff while u are in battle.




I couldn't finish playing after they killed off the character I was waiting 7 years to play. Not sure how come they created a story line that panders to the vocal minority instead of what real players want. It's funny how it got a high score, since the reviewers want to continue to receive free stuff (access media)
Я не понимаю, кто ставит игре такие оценки, она конечно хуже первой части, но не настолько, как говорят. Игра достойна существовать в этом мир и не заслуживает той оценки, которую имеет от игроков.
The last of us 2 is the combination of love, thriller and violence. The game does it works to make you connect to the game at any part of it. Visual and environment are really good make you feel a apocalyptic world, it brings the best out of the game. Gameplay is quite so not satisfying as many and myself was having difficult to adapt the movement of Elie. The story was not good as we expected it carry many flaws. Firstly the death of joel discouraged many players as we have been very connected to joel from last of us part 1 and really wanted to see the joel's fatherhood towards Elie. After the death of joel the game just remain as quest of Elie killing everyone involved in Joel's murder one and another. Secondly the switch to Abby’s perspective doesn’t just grind the narrative to a halt, it also dampens the gameplay experience. So our ratings to visual and gamplay is 9/10, whereas the story only gets 7/10. . Overall ratings comes to 8/10.

I invited one of my homies to stream the game with me. Our plan was to get piss drunk as we were playing this game. We ended up sobering up and checking out right at the two hour mark. This game tries way too hard to be profound. It fails miserably at trying to be profound because it's just too boring. Slogging from one cutscene to the next just felt like a chore. It got me to nearly want to fall asleep with just howboring things got. Also, the story just isn't interesting in the slightest. None of the characters were interesting. You're better off sticking to ither games like Doom Eternal or Final Fantasy 7 Remake. Hell, I'm more blown away by what Xenoblade Chronicles was able to accomplish on the Switch remastered.
Finished the game twice. The story will seem awful if you are a fan of the main characters of the first game. But if you like plots where the story is true to the lore of the world built by authors then this will be a masterpiece. It stays true to the post apocalyptic world of the last of us. The sound is awesome, combat music and voice acting are better than award winning movies. The graphics for the most part seems like next gen visuals. The gameplay takes cues from mgs 5 and its pretty varied and intense on higher difficulties. Enemies are very aggressive and don't seem dumb on hard and survivor. However i was able to break the AI twice in the game. Gun play feels very good; gun variety is also present. Skill trees although half of them are meaningless, its a welcome addition for replay value on new game plus to completely level up . The game length is also decent clocking around 31 hours on my first play through on hard. New game plus is a welcome addition. Game also contains extras like concept art and character models if you like those things. Performance on the base ps4 launch version was very impressive with almost no frame rate dips. Encountered frame rate issues once but it was gone once the game was restarted. Almost zero bugs in the game. Encountered one buggy shimmy animation in my 60 hours with the game. SUMMARY: GRAPHICS : 9.5 GAMEPLAY : 9.5 SOUND MUSIC AND VOICE : 10 PERFORMANCE AND STABILITY : 10 REPLAY VALUE AND GAME LENGTH : 7 STORY : 9 AVERAGE : 9/10

Very bad story, this ruins the image and credibility of all major game critics. If you have the desire to ruin your view on this game franchise & like 10-hour long side quests, this game is for you! Those who accepted gifts, sx & free travels should be ashamed of their pandering to sony and deceiving the public for personal gain. #Gamergate "stunning & brave 10/10"

The best game off my life. Sua narrativa é densa e incrivelmente rica, nunca um jogo mexeu tanto com meus sentimentos. Se possível daria 11 em sua nota. Ao concluir o game você tende a continuar imerso na história e dificilmente esse jogo sairá do topo da minha lista. Obrigado Naughty Dog por essa incrível experiência
I'm mad that I had to wait 4 years just to end up disappointed with the sequel and I feel really bad for the people that had to wait 7 years. This sequel made my year even worse than it already is.
El Juego no es un mal juego , buenos gráficos y jugabilidad, pero... La historia Floja y un sin sentido lo que hicieron , a los fans del 1er juego puede no convencerles como a Mi y sin Ser Homofobos y esas chorradas... La historia se hace pesada casi todo el tiempo , sólo queda lo bueno que fué el Primer juego.
Потрясающий проект! Левел дизайн, гейм дизайн, сюжет на высочайшем уровне! Для меня лучший эксклюзив после Bloodborne’а и один из лучших проектов когда-либо созданных! Низкий поклон и благодарность❤️
Far from 10 but not a 0. I was led to believe by the trailers to expect another story about 2 beloved characters and their relationship, in the end it was not. The story strays even further away than the first game from the infected apocalypse setting. Not that it was bad on the first game, in reality it was kinda refreshing. Putting Ellie and Joel as centerpiece was what led me to love the game. Where in this story, despite having some characters that appeared in the first game, they were just shells of their former selves. That led to a depressing and uninspired turn of events, where the decisions taken by those characters were outright stupid and unrealistic, leading me to feel as the characters were forced to act that way to advance the story. While playing, I haven't felt a connection to Ellie or Abby, especially the ending. Why kill all those people just to get to Abby if you're not going to kill her? You already turned yourself into a murderer, just finish it. Gameplay-wise it was good, but it wasn't that ground breaking experience that I expected from a famous studio such Naughty Dog. Throughout the game there were many occasions where I've faced animation bugs and gameplay bugs. Graphics are great, one of the best that I saw on the PS4, but following the gameplay I've seen objects blinking in and out of existence, some texture bugs as well. Overall it was a disappointing ending to a game that needed no sequel. I meant to give this game a 7, but due to the massive changes on the promotional material to purposely mislead the public I'll give it a 6. Being further disappointed by the way that prominent figures in the medium handles criticism, and I am not talking about the aggressive and offensive comments and/or reviews. Where both sides dismiss any type of point of view that differs from their own, saying that they are bigoted, stupid, propaganda or saying that the critic lacks “insert anything to further prove their point of view”. As Well as the passive aggressive humor, comments, actions and hypocrisy commonly shared by both sides of the argument. I feel pushed to stand in a middle ground and give this 'GAME' a 5. That's it.
The Last of Us was my favorite game of all time. I played through the campaign 3 times. To say I am disappointed with this sequel is a massive understatement. I can't believe they did this to this game. Should be ashamed of themselves. Just terrible. And wow have the left wing games "journalists" been exposed over this one.
Made an account just to post this. What a sick and distasteful way to kill one of the most beloved characters your studio has ever put out. Truly sickening. Furthermore the way characters act completely goes against what they would have done from the first game. THIS GAME IS NOT CANON IF IS A FAN FICTION. I don’t think I can buy from naughty dog again who used to be my favorite studio until this disgraceful mess!
Ridículo, em protesto aos fãs de the last of us 1, irei dar nota 0 (zero). Pelo fato de neil tirar sarro dos fãs. Part III esquece, só se focar em outros personagens. Gameplay muito boa, mas como esse jogo é focado no single player, nota 7.
Jogo cheio de "lacração". Excessivamente linear. Se voce quiser voltar algum local do jogo para tentar pegar algum troféu esquecido não irá conseguir. Muitas e longas cenas. Apela para romances e idéias relacionadas a diversidade, porém de maneira forçada fazendo o jogador engolir goela a baixo os dilemase romances da protagonista.


I’m sad to have played this game, returned it right after I finished it. I dont think they should ever make a game again, they need to disband the studio after this **** game.
Boring and repetative gameplay for 30+ hours that was supposed to be justified by the story that is boring and repetative as well. It is full of filler episodes and cliches that are 50 years old classic of post-apocalypse genre but were advertised as groundbreaking and new.
I had my freedom of speech banned 3 times, so I'm just going to write that this director's puppet deserves a 0 for following the advice of a paranoid against female beauty.
Игра обалденная, графика и геймплей вообще на высшем уровне, поэтому и 10 из 10, спасибо Ноти Дог и теперь жду Онлайн.
The graphics are beautiful, second to none the gameplay is pretty much the same as the first game but the story is, I’m gonna be blunt terrible it’s terrible the fact that Joel dies like that is upsetting but the fact that they tried to humanise Abby is cheap and that we can’t even kill Abby at the end is a big f u to everyone who has been playing for hours
Completely throws away the classic Hero's Journey model (also used in the first game) that's been used in Western storytelling since the beginning of time, and not in a good way. In fact it does everything it can to disrespect the model. If you're going to try to change something that's been appreciated by an audience forever, you better do it right. Simply spitting on it, doesn't make it clever. The graphics were great. That's about it.
That game is an absolute insult to all the fanbase! Ellie goes on a killing spree after Abby kills Joe, Tommy and pretty much everybody Ellie loves. The story is a nonsensical revenge journey that does not pay off in the end! Save your money!
This Game has superb graphics and is very cinematic. Even if u dont like the story u cant rate it so low guys. It aint crap. Anything below 6 is just trolling. So chill ur nuggets and be fair.

the persuasive game, locations and game situations in the second half of the game are separate applause.top-level direction and story twists.the best graphics and art in the industry.the game is exclusively for the adult mind, others will not understand. 10/10
After blasting through it this weekend I can honestly say it was a great disappointment when compared to the first, level designs seemed alot better and graphically it is stunning but the game play felt so similar to the previous one and I expected more from a ps4 title... I was not hooked by the story in the slightest and found it a slog to playthrough, especially making you play through half the game as such an unlikable character. It was clear the message and tone they were going for but I just found it boring and depressing, never have I felt so unsatisfied after finishing a game.
No one will believe me but I didn't know any leak information. I came to my conclusion on my own after playing it on release. I bought the Collector's Edition and controller. I spent about $200 dollars and wasted two vacation days. I thought this was going to be an event and a magical experience. No one's opinion sways my thoughts about this game. It was all through just naturally playing it without any outside influence. I have played the first game 6 times to completion and even had my girlfriend play with me once when doing a run for the Platinum. I hate Abby so much and her stupid friends. I am so confused as to why they tried so hard to make me empathize through manipulation with these characters. I don't have the energy to go in to every little detail on this failure of a story but you can definitely read all the legitimate nitpicks anywhere. No one cares about whatever political issue these hack journalist are trying to spout. Most all of us loved the first and knew what Ellie identifies as. If they knew the history of this series they couldn't possibly think we hate it because of superficial reasons. So many talented people made a beautiful game but I can't forgive the character assassinations or writing, and at the end of the day, this is a story-driven game. Take it easy.
Disregarding the scavenging that got a bit repetitive by the end, I enjoyed the gameplay. I found myself becoming fairly immersed in the story and it ended up being a moving experience for me.


This is a true sequel in every way to the first game released both on PS3 and PS4... The last of us Part 2 gives Ellie so much more growth and depth just as we see how she grows into her own. This game is being hailed as one of the best games even produced this console gen and I completely agree!
Um dos piores jogos q tive o desprazer de jogar nessa geração, sacrificaram dois personagens incríveis e um real ambiente de sobrevivência para agradar com ideologia politica, um grupo q nem sequer jogar vídeo games, só dei nota zero pq não existe nota pior, qse quebrei meu jogo, só não o fiz pq foi presente.
The gameplay, graphics and music are all amazing and had me hooked the entire time. The story takes alot of risks that are interesting but also annoying. There are alot of flashbacks which for me mess up the pacing but overall still enjoyed it.
Awful storytelling, especially after coming from the first game which is impeccable across the board. Too depressing and melancholic to a point of being self loathing. A terrible shame to see the franchise fall in such a disreputable state and it’s safe to say it’s worth just watching the cutscenes on YouTube to understand the complaints. Graphics and Gameplay are serviceable, but that isn’t enough to carry a story driven experience.
They kill Joel in a stupid way. My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined. This game - a big disaster for modern industry and modern life.
Did not play the first game. Listened to both the hype and the critics and wated to make my own choice. Brought the game, played it for two days. Gave up on it as it only seemed to get worse. Took the game back and got a refund. Good graphics but thats about it.
Easily one of the best games ever made. Any of the haters on here are sheep who wanted a spoon fed more of the same story from the first. This game is a emotional rollercoaster that will make you play characters you hate and see their side of the story. Gameplay is the best you can get in an survival horror game.
First, Joel is not Joel, Ellie is not Ellie at All!!!! I will say The last of us never has the second one. I don’t admit this game’s storyline. The reason why I gave 0 score: 1.The trailer has fake contents. It has Joel in the game for further cutscenes. But they charged Joel to Jessie ( The Asian man). It is lying and misleading the players. 2. Joel and Ellie’s relationship totally changed. Joel was very cool and keep his feelings in heart not on the mouth. And Ellie was really like Joel, she used to be the one to follow Joel. Now Joel turns to be a kind daddy following Ellie, which is so not Joel.... 3. Joel is Waaaay smart than this! Save unknown stranger, and follow stranger to her place and telling them his real name after he killed so many ppl? Seriously?! I won’t even do that in the ending world. 4. The story is telling us not to revenge. But how can Abby killed Joel like a dog just after Joel saved his life??? Her father was holding his knife and preparing to fight with Joel, but Joel won! It is a fair fight. Why she got the anger to do revenge that that??? There are more things I disagree and feel super disappointed with the game. Especially knowing the background story about Neil Duchkmann ( Whatever he is) I feel he added too much of his own opinion to the story and totally changed Main Character‘s personality and IQ! He is trying to force ppl who play the game to learn his life lessons and won’t give us a chance to pick our own story. I literally cried after I saw Joel’s death and feeling super sad for few days. That’s why I am here to review this game here. I don’t really think Joel can’t die. He can, but not stupid like that! I hope you won’t waste your money on this game. I won’t play any more game that Neil is in.

This game has THE most beautiful visuals and audio that I ever experienced, but one of the most disappointing plot drags it all down. Graphics, design, acting and sound are amazing. ND has the best art team. But I was never into gaming for graphics - it's like 20% of the experience for me, maybe even less. Graphics can't really add much score to the game (for me). It's a multiplyer. It could make a good game great, but it doesn't do much to elevate a bad game, which is the case with TLOU2. The atmosphere and plot is Bleak and Hopeless. Everything is going from good to bad to worse, and you are forced to watch this trainwreck. Not only that, you are forced to actively participate in it. I cannot count the number of times when the character is about to do something utterly stupid or just disgusting and abhorrently evil, and I simply find myself not wanting to progress. I want to turn away and walk in the other direction, but I can't. It wouldn't be as bad, but the game then actively moralizes with YOU, and scolds YOU as a player for making those decisions and actions that you didn't make. The writer made those decisions for you, and then he punishes you for playing the game that he made. And every damn character, including Allie is like that. Every last one of them is unlikeable. Except Joel, that is DEAD and that we meet in flashbacks that is the only positive thing of the game. But if you're ever allowed to witness that positivity and feel good - that only means that the game is preparing to dip you head first in a bucket of **** because as soon as you'll return to reality, all that positivity will be crushed by something terrible. It's to the point that I found myself completely emptionally detached and simply not caring about anything that happens. I had an urge to skip cutscenes in this game. I'm forced to watch my favorite character deconstructing herself for 15 hours (let's not count the Abby part where I just want to get over with as fast as possible because I want this **** dead). Then there's a problem of the second character. Basically what they do with Abby is they first make us hate her, and then they force us to PLAY AS HER and show us that she's not as bad. Problem is, first impression is already made, and it's THE WORST. No matter what you do after that, I just can't get over the bitterness of knowing what this **** did, and I can't warm up to her. Having a totally unlikeable personality and, let me be blunt here, ugly testosterone-filled looks doesn't help. And then it ends with.... nothing. We've killed so many, we've lost so much, Allie crossed all the bridges... And then we spare the only person who ACTUALLY deserved to die? We just let her go... for what? Why? Why should Abby get to live? The only way they could possibly make it ANY worse was for Ellie to spare her and for that to get drowned by Abby immediately. That'd be nice. And that'd fit in with the story. There's zero positive things to this game other than visuals. Gameplay is mediocre - it's not improved from the first part and feels outdated. It's even worse, somehow. Now look. I think that some people will enjoy that story. Truly. For them - this will be a 10/10 experience. But I think the majority of the fans will NOT. Here's the thing. I do think that some movies and games should go in that direction. To be dark, bleak, violent, outright depressing - all of which TLOU2 is. But I feel that if you're making a SEQUEL - you can not just change the tone so much. Imagine watching Raven first, which is a bleak, somewhat depressing movie, but it has hope and satisfying finale. Then you go into sequel, and all that happens is those ****ty things but without any Raven to punish the villains. You're just watching them torture and kill people for 2 hours. That's the tonal change of TLOU2. Everything is BAD, and will get worse. I think when you make a SEQUEL, you have a bit of a responsibility to your fans to make it "more of the same", to make it satisfying to people who loved the original. If it was a standalone, I would just say it isn't for me. As a Sequel to my favorite game - I can't just let it go. The story is 0/10 for me. The press that all gave it 10/10? Most of them are SHILLS. Maybe they don't get outright PAID, but they rate it high so that they keep receiving early copies. Because if they rate it low - next time ND and Sony wouldn't send it. They are INCENTIVISED to rate high. Aside from graphics, there's nothing to give 10/10 for. Outdated gameplay and unpleasant unfulfilling story that should leave most of the fans extremely upset, and most of normal people at least partially distressed thanks to all the violence and so on. The result is +2 for graphics + 6 for gameplay - 5 for story. Yes, actually negative score for story. If there was no story and just beautiful levels - the game would have been BETTER. Result: 3/10 game for me. Literally do not recommend this to people like me.
Even after all of the negativity surrounding the game, I started playing my friends copy and thought it was ok for the most part, until you hit a point where the whole game changes. I actually got angry at the game and stopped playing. The graphics were great, but that simply can't save this game.
They better not bring Abby back in part 3 hhhhhhhhh h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h. Hg. Hg h h h h h. H hg. H h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h h. Hg. H hg. First half of the game was really good tho no complaints abt thay
Only problem I had was the story execution. After the intro scene, Naughty Dog should have shown Joel's hospital rampage from Abby's perspective. Then you play as Abby until she gets split up from Owen, then it switches to Ellie waking up. For those of you unsure whether to play this game or not, just try it and form your own opinion. This game is great, if you loved the gameplay in part 1, you'll love it in part 2. The music, sound design, graphics, everything is top notch and it's stuff that Naughty Dog has been one of if not the best at since the PS3 generation. The story, well a lot of people are saying the story has plot holes. There are no plot holes. People are saying that it dumbs down characters, it dosen't do that either. The Abby hate is ridiculous and pretty silly considering that Joel killed her dad. However the story falls apart right there for a lot of people once Abby kills Joel. It falls apart to the point that when you play as Abby and see things from her point of few, people refuse to want to emphatize with her and a lot of people disconnect from the game entirely. If you can't emphasize with Abby and see things from her point of view, then you're not going to enjoy this story. If you see Ellie and Abby's conflict as a sinple protagonist/antagonist story, you won't enjoy it. None of these characters are villians or heroes, they're morally grey characters that have tragically gotten caught up in a cycle of violence and revenge. This story points out the bias, we the players, have for Joel and Ellie. Joel is not a hero, he's done some terrible things in his life and not all of them were in self defense. He also decided to sacrifice humanity's chance for a cure, and lied to Ellie about it. With all of these things known, people still refuse to understand why Abby does what she does. They still wish Joel's death would have been heroic, or that he wouldn't have died at all. Why? There are no heroic deaths in the world of the last of us, and a heroic death shouldn't be given to a man that's not a hero. People don't want to try and understand that Joel had this coming. If your loved one was killed, you would want revenge, so why can't you understand Abby's motivations? Players can't let go of the memory of Joel, just like Abby couldn't let go of her father's death and how Ellie can't let go of Joel's. Abby and Ellie have valid reasons to get revenge, but because both of them took that path, their lives and the lives of the people around them ended up worse. The ending has gotten hate, once again due to people not understanding why Ellie didn't kill Abby. Ellie didn't kill Abby because Ellie realized what she was becoming. The whole game Ellie struggles with forgiveness and holds grudges. She held grudges against Seth, Joel and against the WLF. And as Ellie held that critical grudge against Abby and the WLF and sought revenge, she started to turn into a monster. Torturing Nora, killing Mel, certain things Ellie would not normally do, she did in pursuit of revenge. Her revenge got Jesse killed, Tommy's own need for revenge left him blinded and at the end of the game is marriage was fractured. Ellie pushed for revenge and lost Dina. So all this buildup, all of that anger, exhausted her and she finally realized, killing Abby would not bring back Joel. And finally it seems that at the end of the game, Ellie was ready to move on. If Joel could move on and leave Ellie to her faith, he wouldn't have died at Abby's hand. If Abby had moved on, she wouldn't have lost all her friends. If Ellie moved on, Jesse would be alive and she would be with Dina. No one could move on and stop the cycle of violence and revenge, until finally at the end Ellie chose not to kill Abby. This story is dark, it's depressing and it hurts, it did something to me that no other game has done to besides Halo Reach and Red Dead Redemption, it made me cry. And Tlou 2 was the first game that made me truly feel bad for what these characters were going through, and it gave me vivid dreams about them. Play this game, it's fantastic and the story is too, but you have to open your mind, and truly try and understand the motivations of these characters.
Graphically looks excellent. Gameplay is mediocre; while in a battle with enemies, it’s pretty good. When you’re doing anything other than engaging enemies, it’s boring. So, split the difference and it’s average. You’re compelled forward by the narrative. And that’s where the game falls apart. There’s no satisfaction as you progress; it’s one nihilistic cutscene after another where there’s nothing but pain and anguish and hurt and loss and death. I guess that’s what the game wants, but it makes for a miserable experience. Doesn’t help that the dev engages in character dissonance to force fit his story. Painful storytelling. Buy this in a couple months in a $5 bin. Slightly below average as a game and an awful AAA title.
Kudos to the level designers and the artists who put together a game that looked so amazing. Such a pity that their work is completely overshadowed by a story that is so bizarre and drawn out that I struggled to finish it. You play as the main protagonist, Abby, for so long that I stopped caring about Ellie's (the secondary character's) story by the time the game got back to her. Long sequences about nothing background information about the main protagonist that is a cheap attempt to get you to feel for her. The characters are uninteresting and not at all likable. The ending is the most unsatisfying ending I've ever experienced. The ending was so bizarre and not in line with the rest of the story It was all for nothing.
The game has very good graphics, interesting gameplay and excellent scenarios, these are the good points. But the main element of The Last of Us that is story was destroyed, the Naughty Dog made fans of the game disappointed by the death of Joel, who was very remarkable character and who dies pathetically in the game. The story took a totally different turn than most players imagine, and made the game's narrative very political and boring. So doing the game The Last of Us part II, which was long disappointment for the people who played the first game. And finally, the game has many bugs of collision with the scenery and textures do not load. For everything I said in the analysis my score will be low, because that game was a big disappointment for me.
Jogabilidade espetacular, Gráficos espetaculares para a geração, mas a historia e um lixo, esperava muito mais, não senti empatia pelos personagens e nem apego a historia totalmente fora de contexto e sem sentido, no meio do game eu só pedia para essa porcaria acabar e se tem alguém que pensa em comprar esse game pensando na historia espetacular que foi o primeiro,não compre porque só vai jogar seu dinheiro fora!
The game is a very bad experience, this game has no reflective feeling. Regardless of the characterization of the plot and the story is very disgusting, it is full of elements of political correctness, it is no longer a game, it is a nasty thought of the screenwriter
Love the game play love the graphics I really I in mean really hate the story and specifically Unlikable Abby But everything thing Else was awesome it's a shame that naughty dog got lazy with the story
This game tore my heart apart. The story is amazing. Even though some parts of the game might be annoying, or it might be hard to understand Naughty Dog decisions at the beginning, you will figure it out later in the game. So even if you feel that something is wrong at some point - don't give up, just finish the game and understand it. Mechanics complements the story. Raw brutality is very realistic, and helps with immersion. That might be bad though, my mind will never be the same after playing TLoU 2. I guess that bad score is mostly from people who didn't actually finish the game. Believe me - I wanted to give it a 6 at one point. But I have managed to go through it and well... it was worth it.


I took a lot of time to reflect on this game. I even went back to playing the first game again to make my feelings more genuine for the TLOU2 and I ended up being more upset towards this new game. People loved LTOU because of the father/daughter bond that Joel and Ellie had. There were better character development and story that was seamless while in TLOU2 it relies on shock and "surprise". The overall message of the story was entirely predictable and by the end of it, I just felt upset that all of this pain and suffering was because the writer's message was something so obvious. Revenge is bad and it can consume you if you do not do something about it. They killed Joel in such a terrible way just as a catalyst to get this predictable revenge story going. What a complete and utter waste. This game also does a lot of manipulation to make you feel for Abby and make Ellie look bad but it doesn't work. There is a scene where you kill Abby's dog as Ellie as if you are supposed to care when just before you were killing DOZENS of dogs prior. You are supposed to feel bad for killing someone when you just brutally slaughtered tons of other people right before. The game contradicts its self constantly and it ruins the immersion. You can see the puppeteer instead of the puppet constantly. I really disliked a lot of the side characters as well like Mel for example. Why is a pregnant woman going to the front? How irresponsible do you have to be? Also, they even changed a lot of the story like how Joel killed the Doctor. They not only changed his skin color but made the operating room look clean. In TLOU1 the doctor has dark skin and the operating room is moldy and gross. Made me realize how shoehorned this story was. Joel and Tommy are also a lot less smart for the sake of moving the plot for Abby by being way too trusting and telling everything about themselves. These guys didn't get this far from being this stupid. Let's talk about the good. The game has without a doubt amazing graphics and animations. The music and sound design are tremendous and it does a great job of creating a terrifying atmosphere when going up against the clickers. I loved exploring the map and having conversations about what happened to the unfortunate. Combat was nice as well and I got a kick out of smashing people's head in with Abby. Probably the only thing I enjoyed while playing as her. Overall it was a decent game but I can play other games if I want better Graphics or gameplay. I wanted to play TLOU2 for the story and NaughtyDog did not deliver. IMO it was a wasted opportunity to do something better and it could have been handled so much better.
This game is SO bad. Especially in comparison with the first part. It is inconceivable that such an incredible work of artists and designers was corrupted by such a delusional story, which negates all their painstaking work. I hope that this failure will not affect their career.

Horrible story writing, bad pacing of events, and poorly written characters that you are forced to play as for many hours if you want to progress and finish the game. its sad to see such talent in creating the world, graphics, animations, and combat, get overshadowed by Neil's ego to force his ideas, views, and beliefs on everyone else by this horrendously written story, and the failed attempt to make you like, and care for a character that is so bad-written. it saddens me that instead of the feeling of awe, fascination, and impact, that i felt after finishing the first game, the only feeling that this game left me with after finishing it, is that "the last of us" should have never gotten a sequel.
In a singleplayer game the main focus is the story, it affects 80% of the experience, graphics doest matter if the story is good, but when the story is this bad, there's something wrong, most bad reviews are rated as homophobic and anti-lgbt, but it's not the case here. This game is a **** show story-wise, so many flashbacks, even one inside another, they say revenge isn't Worth it, but how can you sell something that doesn't conclude itself in the manner it was sold in the first place? It really deserves the hate, they coul make Abby spend more time.with Joel, starting to get conflicting thoughts about her revenge, even against her friends. I doesn't recommend the game for anyone, feels like a teenager drama show with some gore. That's it.
The problem with this game isn't only the obvious agenda that Neil has admittedly chosen to push, but rather it is that the writers have complete disregard for the characters they have constructed so far. Druckmann tries to evolve his cast in ways that feel unlike their counterparts in the first game and all too often tries to force an inorganic narrative. This franchise was known for its emotional and complex storytelling, and the story transcended identity politics. This latest edition utterly falls completely flat. I have been a naughty dog fan since the crash bandicoot days, but after seeing how little talent Neil and the ND remnants (most of the talent has left or was forced out) have for crafting compelling and coherent stories, I am going to be extremely weary of ND titles going forward. RIP to what had the makings of being an all-time great series and to the ND studio itself. At least the game is very visually appealing, but that’s all I can say of it.
This game shows a big disrespect towards the fans. So many things were unnecessary to be done in this game. Yeah the grafics are great but the story is terrible


Demorei um pouco pra raciocinar o que é este jogo, mas cara, que história horrível..Por que isso Naughty Dog? Esse game play maravilhoso jamais merecia uma historia dessa. The Last of Us 2 não é um jogo do Joel, nao é um jogo da Ellie, nao é um jogo dos Vagalumes, nao é um jogo de vingança.. The last of us 2 nao é nada... Vc nao se vinga, vc nao tem o Joel, vc nao tem a ''verdadeira'' Ellie, nao tem a cura nao, nao tem nada... é um jogo sem identidade, com um final horrível que nao diz nada.. Humilharam o Joel literalmente, que morte mal feita, meu deus. Prós: Gameplay maravilhoso, gráfico lindo, trilha sonora ótima, ambientação imersiva, vale muito a pena jogar por isso. Contrás: Historia horrorosa, jogo e personagens sem identidade. PSN ID: Edgard_1986
After being all in with the Last of Us Part I, I was more than ecstatic to hear about Part II even though it had been 7 years since I played the PS3 version. Seeing Joel connect with Ellie in a way that only a father figure can, it allowed me to see the relationship I have with my daughter and how it could possibly play out in my life if the same events were to happen. I loved Part 1, but as I began to play Part II, that feeling of Nostalgia and the longing to see the growth of Joel and Ellie’s relationship was cut short and I felt as if I was thrust into a big budget Liam Neeson movie with terrible a script and horrible writers. I could not get involved in the story at all. I still played through the game in its entirety, but I didn’t feel a wanting for more. I am just glad I was done. Shame on you Naughty Dog for attempting to ride the political wave to cash in on real issues. This game sucks as beautiful as it is and if Part III is released I probably won’t be getting it.
The short version of this review: a next-gen game, on a current-gen platform in every way, except the 30fps. The slightly longer version: This game is AMAZING. No story, especially in video games, has made me cry, think, and reflect like this one has, not even the first game! It is not an easy story to swallow, as it’s heavy-handed, brutal, and complex. But once you start connecting the dots, it becomes one of the best stories in any medium ever! The feeling of “connecting the dots” reminds me of Shutter Island starring Leo DiCaprio. The first time around, it’s kinda confusing until the big twist comes. But if you decide to go for a second watch, everything starts to mean something more, and you see all the inter-woven stories a lot better. And with such a high quality game, why wouldn’t you want to play it again (besides the emotional trauma and sadness it’ll probably give you)? It’s outstanding in every way. Story and Characters? Excruciatingly Amazing and Human. Extremely immersive. Will probably leave you sad, hollow and empty by the end. Gameplay? A smoother, more refined and expanded version of the OG TLOU’s formula. You can be a lot more creative with this one. Melee Combat and Gunplay feel and play amazing and Stealth gives off MGSV vibes. Technical stuff and Presentation? Top. **** Notch. The graphics are straight out of a PS5, save for the 30fps. The level design? The closest to perfection so far. Acting and animations both in-game and cutscene? The best we’ve had, bar NONE. World Building thru collectibles, dialogue and the subtle details in the environment? On par with, or maybe even better than, RDR2. Polish? Very few glitches and no game-breaking ones. My personal Game of the Year and Generation, and arguably my favorite game of all time, in contention with Part 1 and MGS3.
весь потенциал игры перечеркивает это неприятная деталь о который вы и так уже знаете
If you like the game play for LOU 1 then you'll be happy with this game. However, if you're going in expecting to love the story, then I guess it all depends how "open minded" you are. Personally, it didn't do it for me. I was disappointed. I couldn't care less about the new characters and really just tried to ignore the story and played as if it were some random survival game. This isn't TLOU by any stretch.
1 point for the graphics. The way of treating the characters is terrible. Naughty dog doesn’t respect the fans anymore. Epic bad ending. I won’t spoil. But I feel the same after the ending of game of thrones...
I am a fan of the first game. i played every dlc and the main story about 10 times. i was looking forward to this game for a long time and now this. the story is bad, the charakters are bad and i hate it when they put their political agenda in games. 1/10
They done goofed on the story in multiple ways. I don't mind killing Joel. I expected it. The way they handled it is utter garbage. This pseudo deep story is cliche with unlikeable characters. The theme is an already well trodden path. Not an alt right man baby, but if it makes you feel better by all means.
I dont know, this game for me is not good.. 1.Graphics; 10/10 - is really good 2. Gameplay; 6/10 -nothing special same forumle after 10h is repetitive . Story; 3/10 but story line is not good, for me is really bad, i don't like it, is not because day J. or LGBTQ characters is just really bad for me. 4.Fun; 4/10 this is how much I enjoyed it in game.
Can absolutely understand why the narrative bothers a lot of people but for me, I enjoyed it for challenging me in a way never done by any game other than maybe Red Dead II. Combat encounters are fun and engaging and the graphics are just absolutely stunning, some of the best in gaming today (although Ghost of Tsushima’s environments are giving it a run for its money). GOTY so far!

Really disappointed by this one. While there is absolutely superb production quality in the acting, graphics, etc; and the combat is fortunately not changed much from the enjoyable combat in the first game, the story is just absolutely terrible. I think of this game like a coat that is super stylish and super comfortable, but smells like rotten eggs. Doesn't matter how stylish or comfortable the coat is, you wouldn't wear it. Same with this game, great production quality doesn't wash off the stink of a story that is relentlessly dreary, negative, cynical, that disrespects the characters you love from the first game, and has gigantic plot holes to boot. It's really a shame that Naughty Dog messed up the franchise like this, I'm shocked no one at Sony saw this coming and put the kibosh on it. For a company that has had so many good exclusives to mess up one this big is shocking. Get back in touch with gamers guys, actual real gamers.

We cant have strong Male characters they all have to be dumb so we prop up the female characters. That's lazy story telling lazy writing. You kill off a beloved character in the most unsatisfying way. Then have ellie chase down the character just in the end to not kill her. Neil druckman ruined this game after 7 years this is what we get.
I didnt enjoy The Last of Us 2. With that being said I didnt enjoy the 1st one either that much. The graphics are phenomenal. The voice acting is good. The story is fine, it shows two sides of a story. They should have chosen a different direction in my opinion but you could say that about every game and every movie made that is fiction. I would enjoy this game more if I had more than 4 bullets. They do that to perhaps make the game more challenging or perhaps to be "realistic"? B uh t if realism is what they are going for then I need to buy me the tape they use that fixes bats and pipes. Is the game stealth or an action game? What's the identity? Seems to be stealth because you're not given enough bullets to make it an action game which I would have enjoyed more. For long periods of time I am knelt down behind something hiding and watching movement patterns. That's what the game is designed for but doesnt hold my interest. I'm left to decide on how to rate this game? Do I rate it based upon do I think Naughty Dog executed their plan well? Do I score the game based upon do I enjoy the game? Either way is fine but I feel you should let others know the basis upon which your review is made. My review is from my perspective of what I enjoy. I didnt enjoy this game or style of game. I do however think ND designed a good game and the Developers are talented and if you like these types of games then it may be great. I just dont feel that way. I was bored and wanted more action. I dont care for 1st person shooters I enjoy 3rd person adventure games with plenty of action. This game did not deliver that for me.
The relationship between Joel and Ellie in Part 2 is more complicated, more interesting and more moving than the one they had in the 1st game. There! I said it! The fact that his death was so abrupt and unceremonious makes the flashback scenes and the fact that Ellie didnt get to forgive him all the more tragic. Abby is a great character that I liked and rooted for not because her killing Joel is justified by the fact that he killed her father but because playing the game you get to experience her arc from being a traumatized ruthless killer with tribalistic ethics to becoming a friend and a mother figure to a kid who she thought was the enemy. She was lost in the darkness and she searched for the light(like the Firefly motto goes), the light her dad represented, the light he found with Lev. To the people who hate the ending because Ellie doesnt kill Abby: Are you seriously saying that all the other killings were pointless because she didnt kill Abby? The theme of the story was about learning to let go and stop holding on to hate. The point of it all was not "Good guy kill bad guy" but for Ellie to finally let go of the hate that destroyed all of these lives, the hate Abby also had for Joel and that ultimately lead to the death of all her friends. Hate, eve if its justifiable, will only destroy you and turn you into the monster you were fighting against. The best thing you can do is to let go and forgive even the most unforgivable acts. Just think about how much better things would be if Ellie hadnt walked down that path of vengeance. Think how better things would be if she had forgiven Joel earlier. She was too late on forgiving Joel but not Abby. If she had killed her she would be forever lost in the darkness and there would be no turning back. With that last act of forgiveness she just barely saved herself. By the end of the story Ellie knew the cost of resisting forgiveness. By learning to forgive Abby she finally forgave Joel. Even if it was too late its was nice knowing that the last time they spoke to each other she gave him hope that one day she would finally learn to forgive him. That day tragically never came for him but he died hoping and in the bleak world of The Last of Us you take what you can get.

.Storyline was brutally murdered, just like joel The first game was a masterpiece, this one is clearly a lame excuse to pass on agendas and political correctness..
This is a fantastic game that doesn’t hold back in regards to any amount of violence or any topic. This made me feel every and ended up making me question relationships I had with every character. I’m playing it again, I liked it so much. Please don’t pass this game up. It’s too good to miss.
Overall the story was written like someone who was wrote a college essay last minute, extremely sloppy. It tried so hard to be different and speak on social issues which was great but came across as trying too hard and in the end was just an utter embarrassment of a game. Little to no enjoyable parts, it became very redundant.
Loved the story. Loved the game play. Loved the world. Loved the sound design and animations. I kept an open mind after the "event" happens and have no problem with the game's message. The pacing could be better in my opinion. Thank you Naughty Dog, hope we get more like this in the future.
Horribly disappointed. Hope the part 3 redeems the franchise. Anticlimactic ending, character development sucks, gameplay sucks and for the life of me why sony didn’t censor the sexual scene is beyond me. Is this was any other game they would have censored the hell out of it. Only redeeming quality is the graphics.
The gameplay is fantastic. The graphics are insanely good, but the story is god awful. The developers tried to push an SJW political narrative and it falls flat on its face. When the majority of the fans complained about this, Neil Druckkman had the audacity to call the fans of his game sexist, homophobic and transphobic. It’s insulting to the people who loved the first game and all of the amazing characters it had. Now the fans are stuck having to spend time with people like Lev and Abby. Nobody cares about these stupid ass characters. Dont buy this game, Naughty Dog does not deserve your money. If you really want to play this game, rent it or borrow it from a friend. Im sure gamestop will be selling their hundreds of used copies for like $5 anyway.

Garbage. Mediocre story with limited character's development and pigeonholed growth. Too busy pushing its own agenda to realize that games do not need to preach anything to be good. Wait for a deep sale or skip this garbage.
Very bad. Просто потому что повесток в играх быть не должно и они должны быть прежде всего интересными, а не ссылаться на меньшинства, которые и в игру-то играть не будут.
No fue la gran cosa la verdad, solo está para jugarlo una vez y ya, ojalá saquen un multijugador porque el gameplay aunque es como el 1, pido nuevos diseños de mapas.
I have no clue what naughty dog was thinking with this Story. I loved the first game so much because the characters and story were so perfect. So I was super excited to play as Joel and Ellie again. Well that’s not what you get. You know what you get? Playing as another character that looks like the biggest feminist on roids who kills my favorite character in the stupidest way possible! Did they not look back to see why people liked the first one? Because of Joel and Ellie. This game sucks!
Я люблю первую часть игры за её сюжет, персонажей и атмосферу, но в этой части есть только атмосфера, про сюжет я вообще молчу слить единственного нормального персонажа в первые 30 минут игры-это тупость. Концовка вообще ужас, гнаться за человеком, убившим твоего «отца», а потом отпустить его это дибилизм. Мотивы Элли заезженные до нельзя. Хвалить игру можно только за графику, но этого недостаточно, чтобы игре ставить 10/10.

It is a sensational, impeccable game, better than practically all the games I have played in my life, ND and Sony are to be congratulated, what a work of art, a true masterpiece.
game full of trash. first, it surprises a player of a fantastic level with graphics and elaboration of locations. Anita sarkeesian (crap woMAN) turned the game a bunch of sjw freaks. I want to burp from the plot. the beloved character was brutally hammered with a stick, with a gender fluid with a pigtail. I delete this tolleristic garbage and wish the game to fail! Sorry for my mistakes. I still speak English badly
Essentially the same gameplay as 7 years ago. The story, which the game is supposed to be known for, is complete garbage. In an attempt to make a controversial and edgy story, they made, like I said, hot garbage. All I'll say is, imagine John Wick went through killing hundreds of people, just to not kill the guy who killed his dog. Imagine crusading in the early days, just to turn around when you reach Jerusalem - that is this game
The Last of us Part 2 pushed the industry in a new direction. The amount of emotions I felt playing the game was something I never felt before and for that alone I recommend the purchase of the game. The graphics are amazing and gameplay is similar to The last of us 1 however everything is turned up to a new level.
Accion si que hay pero la forzada inclusión que quieren hacer destruye la trama, francamente naughty dog si quieren normalizar las cosas esa no es la forma lo hacen detestable
Good gameplay and graphics, but the story are bad If you are a fan of the last of us, you might be disappointed Think twice before you buy this game.
The last of us 1 was an absolute Masterpiece, a true 10/10 Game, a Sequel wasnt needed, but since they announced it, people were of course excited to see what Naughty Dog would come up with, and since Naughty Dog was till now regarded as one of the Best Game Devs, what could go wrong right? riiiight? Well it did go wrong oh Boy did it go wrong. The First Game had not just great Graphics and awesome Sound (Music) but more importantly a superb Story that People were totally Sucked in, and awesome Characters that we loved and could identify with. We felt with those characters, had a smile on our Faces when something nice happened, had a tear or two in our eyes when something sad happened, and i would say all the people who loved this game, fall in Love with Joel and Ellie and their heartwarming Father / Daughter like Relationship... and here we have The Last of Us 2....what does it have in common with the first Game? Well 1. The Name, 2 Great Graphics (Pushing the PS4s Hardware) and again Great Sound but thats about it.... The Story is a MESS, same with the Characters! Everything we loved in the First Game was ruined here, they literally shat all over the first Game! And yes, the fact that they killed the belowed Character of Joel in the First 2 Hours, with less than 5 Minutes of interacting with him is **** but its not even the fact that they Killed him...no, most people were expacting him to Die in the Sequel, the **** Part is how he died! They Turned both Joel and Tommy into complete Greenhorns! Esspecialy Joel who would Trust like no one and is always super Carefull with what he does, suddenly trusts those Strangers, follows them in a Closed Area, and allows to be surrounded by those Armed Strangers like a fool! Followed by Tommy telling those Strangers his Name and where they Live and than Joel telling them his Name, even so he would never ever do that?! Its like they held a Sign over their head that says "kill us!" This was so unbelievable poor Story Writing - and no! explaining why this happened does not make it right! They just wanted to kill him so they could deliver this mess of a Garbage Story. And like thats not allready frustrating enough, afterwards the player is forced to play as his Murderer for around 12 Hours!!! wtf was that!!! Playing 12 Hours as this extremly unlikeble She Hulk Like Psychopath was a Torture for almost all the people who hated this Game, and reason for many to Quit the Game at this Point and / or even Return the Game! What is further annoying is the blatant and forced try of the Devs to make us like these new Characters (Abby) and make us think that they are the good ones while at the same time trying to make us think that the old Characters are the bad Guys (Ellie Kills Doggys = Ellie baaaad, Abby Plays with Doggys and Saves Zebra with her Dad = Abby gooood) nice try but failed hard! And Naughty Dog trying to make us believe that Revenge is a bad thing....really???? So When Abby grows up from childhood to adult and hunts down Joel all the Time just to Kill him because he Killed her Father (because he wanted to Kill Ellie!!!!!!) that Revenge is ooookkkkkkkk, but when Ellie than wants revenge for Joels Death, that is suddenly baaaad??? Not to mention that after she slaughters all of abbys friends and an army of other people, at the end she suddely decides not to Kill Abby??? wth!!!! so we are even denied revenge on that horrible person, that is abby, so she gets away with murdering our beloved character joel in the most brutal and disrespectfull way, Joel is gone, Ellie in the end completely broken down, what kind of Garbage is this??? Druckman said that probably many wont like this Game because of all what i just said....well damn right we dont!!! This Game is a gigantic middlefinger and kick in the faces of all the Fans of the first Game! For me this game does not exist! Last of Us ended with the First Game. Period! Also iam done with Naughty Dog, as long as they dont kick that Druckmann out and apoligize for this utter mess, iam never again buying anything from them!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! By the way, 0/10 Scores and 10/10 Scores are both **** this **** is no Masterpiece so all those "bought" Perfect Scores are a joke, at the same time the Stunning Graphics, Sound and the good enough Gameplay are reason enough why Zero Scores are also nonsense. I gave it 3/10 because 1 Point for Graphics, 1 for Sound and 1 for Gameplay, i was thinking about 4/10 but The last of Us heavily relies on Story, and when the Story is bad - like it is here - than the best Graphics, the best Sound and the Best Gameplay wont save it! Therefore 3/10 is my Score, with a big "dont buy this crap" by the way, i was lucky enough that i could borrow this game from a friend (who also hated it!) so thank god i didnt waste money on this Garbage Train, and didnt support Naughty Dog for this Mess that they delivered!
the game completely did not live up to expectations, and even deceived in the 2019 trailer, due to the fact that Joel is alive, although he died after 2 hours of playing
A lot of controversy about this game but in my experience playing the game it is overall an above average game. There was one of two things that happen in the story that I wasn't a fan of but it doesn't ruin the story for me and overall I enjoyed the story. The gameplay is very similar to the first Last of us game but with some improvements made to it for example the animation allow for it to feel much smoother and you can now jump which doesn't sound like something big but it makes a big enough difference and the dodging mechanic added creates a fun melee combat experience. In fact I enjoyed this game so much I decided to play through the new game+ in order to unlock the platinum trophy.
While a solid game in terms of change from the first, the introduction of a new character into the mix was not expected nor in my opinion necessary. When we first meet Abby in the beginning of the game, we are immediately informed why she’s in Jackson. It’s to kill Joel. As a fan of the first game, I was not ok with this but I understood why someone would seek revenge for the murder of a loved one. Abby succeeds in her mission and this is my first complaint with the game. The way Joel was killed did not vibe with me very well. Him telling Abbys group his real name is something he would never do. His death puts Ellie on the war path for revenge and makes her almost unlikeable in the way she goes about seeking revenge by murdering a ton of people and dogs along the way made her seem unlikeable. When the game changes to Abby halfway through and tries to make her relatable. In my eyes it fails. What she did to Joel is completely unforgivable. I don’t care what Joel did. Overall, the mechanics were great though because it added new things like going prone and tall grass to hide in and as Ellie an unbreakable shiv in her knife. Which was awesome. The ending was absolute garbage. Will most likely not play again.
Believe the hype. Incredible game, beautiful production and a an Oscar-worthy story. Not often you’ll get to the end of a game and start it all over again, but this is one of them
This is not a game that we know Silly story Repeative gameplay High budget 7 years of developments That ends like trash.. nothing is worth to play this game
Игра провал года с очень плохим феминистическим лгбт сюжетом , графика полная фигня . Игра даже 0 балов не заслуживает . Очень плохая игра , не советую её брать
Apesar da morte do Joel ter sido apresentada de maneira ridícula e com desleixo, o jogo consegue dar a volta nos problemas e entregar uma boa experiência.

Got to finish it so here is my two cent. The graphic are good. But the game play becomes repeatedly to fast making it hard to progress. The worst part was the story which lacks meaning and depth. the whole revenge plot is badly executed. By making Ellie the main protagonist was a bad move in my opinion. She was a loving awesome character in the first and I think that they took that away in this game. The other characters are thin and easily forgotten. same with some of the story plots in the game just felt thrown into the game to push it. Differently Not a good game and easily forgotten.
This review will have spoilers but before i get to that - Save your time, money and energy and don't buy this game, I usually dont write reviews but this game was so bad i just had to. Dont let it soil the love and appreciation you've built up for characters in the first game. All the 10/10 and 5 star reviews and articles popping up are quite frankly fake, paid reviews by people who think they're above everyone else in "their artistic genius". After finishing the game I'm left with a really bad taste in my mouth. Its rare for me to honestly rate any game a zero because I always try to find the merit in games even if they have flaws. But this game has almost no good points, its merits are few and far between and whatever genuinely good parts present are ruined by the rest of the game. Im left wondering, after seven years of waiting THATS what we get?! In a post-apocalyptic world where the possibilities for a game are endless THATS the best they could come up with? It felt like a cruel slap in the face. Like raising a child for years (in this case the first instalment) and then having said child brutally gutted in front of you (second instalment- the last of us part 2) It honestly felt like the infected weren't even a part of the game anymore and were just kind of an obstacle. I just cannot seem to grasp just how idiotic the story is They've taken the surgeon who was supposed to develop a vaccine from Ellie in the first game, a seemingly unimportant almost insignificant character just taped to the end of the first game. And they've made him a basis for revenge for the entire sequel? Seriously? An entire well filled with fantastic ideas and you choose the worst possible one? I hope your directing career is over Neil. In what world is this game alright?! Its very obvious that the team working on this game frantically tried to clean up druckmans story mess with clean visuals and solid gameplay but druckmans idiocy rooted within the game prevails at making it a misery to play. Its horrible beyond belief, through and through. Killing off one of the most favourable characters of the franchise in literally the first 2 hours of the game in the worst way possible was the first indication to how terrible the rest of the game was going to be. There was no real purpose to it. Backtracking to the first game, Joel's daughter was also killed in the beginning and it was gut-renching and there was real emotion I feel like they were going for the same thing in the last of us 2 albiet very unsuccessfully In the first game Ellie and joels relationship grows into a father daughter type relationship to fill the void joels daughter left In the last of us 2, they attempt to patch it up with dina and tommy unsuccessfully This is a perfect point to state that the games heavy emphasis on the gay agenda also serves no purpose other than to gain the support of the gay community. It's horrifying what they've done in game. Jesse gets Dina pregnant, kill off Jesse so Dina and Ellie can have a family. The message here is that men are only good for breeding? Another disastrous point is that the game tries to humanise Joels killer, it tries to justify her actions by having you play as her for half of the game, 12 HOURS. Honestly, that part was just torture, playing as a character you despise while the producers desperately try and paint her in a positive ligh. And then forcing us, playing as a character we hate to fight a character we love? That's cruelty I honestly let tommy kill me (playing as abby) like a hundred times before i felt satisfied moving on I also let Ellie do the same Why? Why did neil try so hard to make Ellie the bad guy? Why did he try so hard to make joel the bad guy? Why did they introduce Abby into the franchise? Theres no reason to any of what this game contains In the end the game had a chance to redeem itself and at least score a 1 or 2 out of 10 by killing Abby, the character that everyone despises and no... of course, you couldn't grant me that luxury could you Neil. You had to let Abby escape, had to leave Ellie with PTSD, no family, no friends, no father figures, no fingers, no revenge. Nothing. You had to rip out everything, throw it on the floor, spit on it and make your fans lick up the garbage you created. You honestly had one job and failed, flailing miserably might i add I wish i had never played this game, i wish i had left it at the first instalment without a sequel Thanks for nothing you piece of ****
The game plays pretty much the same as the first part with almost no new added gameplay mechanics so the reason for getting it was really on the story which was a generic revenge is bad plot which had nothing to do with the surrounding world its set in

Ventajas : graficos,sistema de peleas muy divertidas Desventaja : muchos flashbacks innecesarios, sistema de loot aburrido , historia del juego . Forzar personajes con ideologicas distintas
I mean look at the reviews they speak for them selves. The fact that critics rated the game so highly and literally the entire gaming community is trashing on the game is proof of the fact. Amazing visuals and music. I liked the gameplay but its A STORY game lol the STORY was VERY VERY BAD. Imagine a MAIN character who the entire community of the game loved and cared about being tortured in front of his "DAUGHTER" and killed in front of her eyes. LOL as a story okay you choose to do that fine but remember you are making the game for the people like who in their right mind would want to see that happen even if it was for the plot it doesn't make any sense. delusional director I wish Bruce did TLOU2 the retired. Oh well whats done is done but now you guys should have a good understanding on how these massive critics are just fake and who to trust. Im glad I am not alone on the opinion of this game and hope other game developers learn from ND BIG mistake !!
What a waste of $60! The story is ruined by liberal talking points and a game that is more cut scenes than actually FUN game play. Couldn't be more disappointed
I just want to share my frustration on this game. Killing my favorite character just like that is plain crap. Then after half the game why will I play the character who killed the main character from the previous game. The trailer misled me replaced by Jesse.. The worst game I played this year. I hate it
SPOILER: Please do not read this review if you haven't finished this game. This game has the worst ending and the most annoying character called Dina which happened to be a pretty important character in the game. I think many of us played this game for hours with the mindset based on the pre release trailer or encounter between Abby and Joel. I couldn't believe how horribly Naughty Dog ended the game. It was just very disappointing to invest so many hours in this game. What was the purpose of this game? Ellie didn't do anything to respond appropriately to the brutality showed by Abby. Ellie instead kept taking beating by Abby. This game has the weakest main character. I think Abby's character was much stronger and meaningful than Ellie's character. Such a disappointment. I have never given 1 star to any games before, but after finishing Ghost of Tsushima I am happy with 1 star rating for this game. I hope Naughty Dog would learn something from Sucker Punch. Last of Us II is the ONLY game that I have ever pre-ordered. One thing is for sure, I will never pre-order any Naughty Dog's game. It's a lesson learned. Given such a terrible Metacritic User Score for this game, I would say majority of the people are disappointed with Naughty Dog. I hope in the future people wait to buy games by Naughty Dog until enough user reviews are in and then buy if the reviews are good. I am NOT going to spend my money on some crappy games by Naughty Dog.
Não curti muito dá forma que o Joel foi morto, más isso não tira o brilho do jogo, é um jogo pra quem têm um mínimo de inteligência vai entender o contexto do jogo, pra mim jogo do ano.
Es un juego muy malo por que tuvo un final pésimo y por que mete personajes forzados y la muerte del protagonista Joel fue muy mala lo único bueno fue el gameplay y los gráficos los demás esta mal este juego me dejo un mal sabor de boca una decepción completa


Simply a masterpiece in gaming that pushes the medium to new heights. An unforgettable experience. This game is masterful in its storytelling, technical achievement, smooth gameplay, and art direction. Most of all this game did something that no other art form could do to this extent when it comes to building empathy for another human being. Hats off to the Naughty Dog team!
Just finished the game coupe days ago, didn't spoil me before the release ... as a fan of the first game I really can't like this one and that's so sad and upsets me. There are some decisions were made which I do not understand. The greatest strength of this franchise is now the biggest weakness. The story has a lot of plot holes and it's simply not good. The gameplay still stuck in the year 2013.
El juego no supera las espectativas que generó, se suponìa una historia de venganza pero finalmente no fue nada de eso, el primero triunfó por su historia, este tiene buena jugabilidad y gráficas pero terminó decepcionando.
I don't know how but nauhtydog **** up this game. The graphic was great but the story was awful.
If your going to kill the main protagonist and force your player to play the villain might as well change the name of your game then calling it a part 2. Also this could have been stomached better if the player was given the choice to kill Abby in the end rather then forcing the story on them. Take some input from ghost of tsushima and stop treating players as stupid sheep that has to follow your script.

Vergonha.... Jogos são para diversão, Não para Lacração e política. A Lacração . é a coisa mais nojenta, vão criar vergonha na cara. Eu tenho nojo de ideologia forçada e sexo em jogos de vídeo game. Deveriam ser processado por noticias falsas e devolver todo dinheiro dos clientes.
The graphics is nice, its polished. I'll give you that. Other than those, its a complete drag playing the game over the point of simplistic story of trying to get you travel from A to B and repeat. The worst part is, it tries to play with your emotions with the developers thinking they are doing it great. It sucks. Its sad to see that naughty dog is ruining their own brand by trying to do something "funny". You guys should learn from star wars man. Don't fix something that is not broken.
Abysmal Loading times New characters with no depth. Abby is a roided out freak Pacing of the story feels all over the place The story drags on and its not even good. False advertisement from the launch trailer In was a fan of the first game and this is how you betray a fans. I will never buy from naughty dog again This is total disrespect to the first game
I did enjoy my time playing this game . Graphics, animations & sound design is freaking amazing . The story disappointed me because I wanted more time with Joel & Ellie . The game was intending to make Abby more likable then Ellie & force the player to do certain things I disliked. The gameplay does get repetitive with looting & with same scenarios over again . The world is amazing & they are several moments I got emotional & cutscenes were amazing .

Ruined a franchise. Story is written by a Incompetent person. This is just horrible blasphemy. How can they do it to Joel like that? Such disrespect! You guys have no care about fans. And also, false marketing? Bait and Switch! They went to the point of changing Joel from young to old in game trailers to entice people on a FAKE STORY. ND and Sony Are horrible !

Just so disappointed :( The Last of us has, for years, been my favorite game of all time. I was so excited to continue the story. The visuals and score do a fantastic job however that’s kind of where the positives finished for me. The gameplay didn’t feel too different to the first however it did lose its charm for me much faster. I felt a lot of encounters to be repetitive. However my biggest issue has to be the direction of the story. I loved Joel, I get that he is a flawed character but literally everyone is in these worlds. But he was OUR character in the game. I I was not even mad about his death or even the manner of it. I knew that would be a powerful way to send Ellie on her revenge quest. But to force you to play as the antagonist and beat Ellie was a joke. 10 hour or so playing as the character her brutally murdered your character from the first game, playing through as the story rams down your throats “look these people are nice sand kind too in their version of events”. I understand what they were trying to do but I just couldn’t enjoy playing as Abby after what happened isn’t the opening chapter.
Los graficos es lo unico que tiene, la historia horrible y mal contada, el sistema resulta igual de buggeado que el del primero. Por lo menos el doblaje cumple.
Soooooo glad I cancelled my Collectors edition I had reserved. I can't imagine spending $170.00 on a game that was TOTALLY changed and spit out into a whole new "thing". Thank God for the spoilers!
In an attempt to please a certain party or push agendas, ND lost itself with the narrative and storytelling which was what made the TLOU so great in the first place. TLOU wasn't groundbreaking in terms of graphics or game mechanics, but the story and acting really puts some films to shame. But you get none of that here, the bond between Ellie and Joel was pushed to the back seat in this sequel as another seemingly agenda that ND felt was important was force fed to us gamers in a crude and in-your-face manner. ND did an amazing job recreating Seattle and I give credit where credit is due; it's absolutely breathtaking and a visual treat. The motion capture was out of this world and it's the little details such as Ellie's bag and its zippers swaying as you move, the water dripping off from the point where after Ellie was soaked and every time after you visit the workbench, how you have to reload again because Ellie cleared the weapon before tinkering with it. Enemies' brain matter splattered all over the wall after a headshot and in this aspect, it was extremely well done. This was what made TLOU2 bearable for me to push till the final ending. But all of that quickly fell apart when the number of plot holes are just staring at my face and begging for me to write this review. It's painful and what a big shame really, I bought TLOU on both the PS3 and PS4 (Remastered), completed at least 10 times and dare I might say, it's a masterpiece and one of the greatest games of my generation. But not this title they pass off as a sequel. The story-telling was extremely disruptive. Every time the story gets deeper and you start to spot plot holes, understand these characters (and there a ton of new characters) Bam! ND throws you a flashback and you have to swing your thoughts again. It's as if every time you are getting close to a plot hole ND throws you off by making you play these flashback sequences. There simply wasn't enough time for me to relate to these characters and that was when it all start to fall apart. None of the characters are likable because ND made the pace so disruptive and one moment you are here, the next you are there. I can forgive the lack of innovative gameplay, adding a jump and a rope swing in 2020 is like going back to 2010s and saying, "hey we have 3D models now!". Because TLOU isn't about industry changing mechanics, but the story. And oh boy, what a disaster with the story. By now you should be aware of how we were all led to believe that things won't happen the way it would and unfortunately this was the biggest mistake of ND in TLOU2. I felt that if they really want it to happened, it should take at least 2,3 more sequels before doing so. Just because it took 7 years in the making, doesn't mean gamers will just forget what happened in TLOU. You can't just destroy something so beautifully created in TLOU in this sequel, force us to like these new characters that have no personality and in such an abrupt manner. We purchase things because we expect it to work the way we want to, not because the manufacturers have a new social agenda and want to mislead us through deception and censorship. Imagine you are at your local store looking for this brand of utensils you've heard so much about. They advertised it as long lasting, high quality and just what you'd expect from a AAA brand. You picked one up, it does looks like high quality material, you'd expect it to last and was happy with your purchase. You go home and suddenly inside the packaging the manufacturers say it's made of biodegradable material that will degrade by itself in 3 - 6 months depending on how frequently it's being used. False advertising. However the ending was what really felt like a slap in the face for purchasing this game. It's as if ND hated this franchise and want this IP to go up in flames. It was akin to spitting on us, spitting on the franchise and giving a big **** you to all. Note that game shops in Hong Kong and Taiwan are literally giving away TLOU2 for free if you were to purchase 3 other games. The used marketplace is literally flooded with this and stocks are stagnant. Sorry ND, you done ****ed it up this time.

This game is literally trash I've wanted my time on this trash game. It just let me down. Im so disappointed I thought it would be great but uhh it has destroyed my thoughts
Excellent graphics, excellent mechanics. The story surprised me a lot, it took me to a whirlwind of emotions. I think I understood what Nought Dog wanted to pass on to the player! Amazing!!!
Story is the worst I’ve ever played! Game is basically just a political agenda with too many plot holes!
Funny how Metacritic keeps deleting my well-thought out and objective review. I guess I'll use the "real critic method" - This game is garbage, the story is pathetic and serves as a low-point in gaming history.
First off, this is my first game of the series that I played. I never played the first game. I saw all leaks prior of the release date and it never discouraged me purchasing this game. I think it even made me want to play it more to be completely honest. It took some time getting used to the controller mechanics but I picked it up really quick. Although, I may not like the fact that Joel die, I like the story overall. I never played a game that you get to play the first half as the antagonist and the other half as the protagonist. So I have to give credit to Naughty Dog for thinking outside the box. The graphics and physics are top quality everything about this game is awesome.
O gameplay e gráficos são incríveis, mas o foco do TLOU é na história que é incrivelmente fraca e forçada, o comportamento dos personagens principais mudam de maneira inexplicável. As tramas parecem série pra pré adolescente, a mina não quer ir com o cara pq a namorada dele ta com ciume // a Ellie fica em conflito pq a namorada dela ta gravida do ex.. por um momento pensei que estava assistindo glee ou alguma serie merda pra menina de 14 anos. O ápice da merda foi no final em quem a Ellie passa o jogo inteiro atrás de vingança pq uma NPC matou o protagonista do game anterior de forma horrível, a Ellie simplesmente deixa a vilã ir embora sem mais nem menos. Literalmente a mina espanca a namorada da Ellie grávida, mata o melhor amigo dela, quase mata o Tommy (que é um tio pra ela) e mata a pessoa que largou tudo pra cuidar dela como fosse a própria filha dele e ainda arranca dois dedos da Ellie, isso tudo e ela deixa a mina ir sem motivo algum. Além disso os personagens são mau desenvolvidos, eles morrem e nunca mais são citados, são completamente esquecidos. Desrespeito com o primeiro jogo que é uma obra prima, The last of us 2 é realmente jogo realmente lamentável.
graghics are amazing and the gameplay is satisfying but all goes down when the game shoves down the woke agenda down our throats. 7 years i waited for a horrible story and horrible new characters that we dont care for. they have killed the franchise.
I really got disgusted when i saw how they killed the pregnant woman i felt it was unnecessary and brutal
Poor game, terrible history. Yes, the graphics in the game are beautiful and detailed! but you won’t leave it alone, the game is very lightweight even at a high level of difficulty it didn’t impress me, the mechanics of the game are also too primitive, I really looked forward to its evolution, but it didn’t work out, so my rating is only 3!

This game is sucks and **** the story is a big **** bad writing and dialogs are suck ass and **** this game is need to be remade with a STORY this **** game dose not has one
Excellent animation, beautiful graphics. However the main points of the franchise, the story and the characters, have been butchered and **** upon, all in the name of feminism. Druckman please leave Naughty Dog, and start your own damn company, I'm 10000% sure Sony will fund you without question. Just give us back Amy Henning, and you can do your own thing, nobody would mind. Just please stop pissing on Naughty Dog's name and history, for the love of God
I created an account just to review this game after reading how much the game got I had to play and judge it for myself and I m glad I gave it a go despite all the bad reviews out there I played the first game and it became an instant favourite of mine I started playing the game I was immediately impressed by the level of detail and how amazing this game is visually the game has improved a lot the story has left me puzzled to say the least but I have to guve Neil Druckman the credit for the writing overall this game is one of the best out there
В техническом плане игра бесподобна. В плане сюжета, если не сравнивать с первой частью, в принципе нормально. Самый большой недостаток избыток феминизма и гомосятины, почему нельзя было найти "золотую середину".
Pathetic attempt by so many people to give this game a 0? Who ever said every story had a good ending? Pathetic to those who also gave this game a 10! This game has always been about Ellie. The truth is somewhere in the middle so take it with grain of salt. For those complaining you spent your money no one held you hostage! You didn’t have to buy it. For those giving it a 10...... come on bruh. Every thing was ruined beyond repair. I’ve played just hours in but the ending was ruined by some disgruntled employee but still. This is one of the most iconic games of alltime. The story may be a low score and the graphics a high score gameplay may be average. I believe the game deserves no lower or higher than a 7 given circumstances. I bought the collectors edition and I be dog on if I don’t enjoy myself. All in all if you a fan enjoy the game and make your own opinion. I believe those that it a 0 have a point but if you never played or knew of this game before you wouldn’t have. And I believe those that gave it a 10 got a case. But that’s fanboy territory! They know good and well this game was no masterpiece. It has flaws. This game is no 0 nor is it a 10!
The game is interesting to your idea, but the game is literally the first with the best graphics they didn’t have the minimum amount of work to bring something new and for the first being an incredible game they copied it thinking that the game was going to be good, but the game has an interesting idea, great graphics, its dynamics very well done, an extremely interesting story
I really liked this game. I had a lot of fun with it. I understand if someone didnt like it cause everyone has a different opinion which is not a problem for me.
Awesome graphics, awesome rope physics and fun stealth gameplay, but....and thats a huge BUT! What the hell did they do to the franchise and the story? This has to be the worst sequel Ive seen in my 35 years. And for the story alone, with all its SJW **** all I can give this game is a 0/10. Absolute garbage.
В этой игре будет лишь один самый смелый и крутой момент, это смерть Джоела, далее девочка идёт мстить, и было бы более круто, если бы Елли нам в этой игре показали прям самой плохой злодейкой, которая потрошит всех и вся. И в конце она если бы потеряла всё что имела, но нет. Вам просто подсунуть игру за вторую накачанную бабу, которая должна вам 10 часов раскрывать себя, чтобы в конце игры вам сказали, что вот так вот мы сделали. Я вообще не понял, как можно было бросить жизнь, которую ты типа выбрал, чтобы успокоиться, а потом такой, нет, я всё же отомщу, а потом приходишь и такой ну ладно, не так уж сильно я и хотела. Типа пройти сотни километров это шуточки и сме*уюточки? Какого хрена Томми пришёл и позвал мстить, а в конце где он был? Даже если бы ее убила не она, а он, то я бы хотя бы был удовлетворен тем, что эти люди достигли цели, и стали теми самыми монстрами окончательно. Но нет, игра такая, мы хотели показать вам месть, но все люди хорошие. Вы хотели показать каков жесток мир, но не показали. В мире как раз так и человек бы нихуя никогда не понял бы и убил бы во что бы ни стало. Тем более когда ты в конце сделал решение прийти и добить человека и пройти 1000 миллион километров матье го. Зачем вы мне дали играть за Эбби два миллиарда часов? Зачем? одного часа геймлея хватило мне, чтобы понять её ситуацию и принять. Но нет, нахуй никому ненужных и не раскрытых персонажей вы вводили и убивали, типа я должен был посочувствовать. Нет, это так не работает. Если бы не было первой части игры, вы бы могли сделать из второй части хоть что-то. Но сперва дать персонажей, и дать полюбить их. А потом убить его, а потом попытаться перенять одеяло полностью на сторону Ебби и ее друзей, это вообще не работает. А потом ещё и дать своими же руками убить Елли и её друзей? Вы там вообще с ума посходили? Мозг человека не так работает. Да это серая мораль, но когда ты со стороны наблюдаешь на две стороны. А не так, что ты сам участвуешь в битве, в которой играешь за обе стороны. Это играть в шахматы одному за две стороны. Это же бред. Я могу понимать двух игроков, если они играют в шахматы и я смотрю на них, я пойму и выигравшего и посочувствую проигравшему. Ну а тут я играю сам с собой в шахматы, а потом что? я должен понять и посочувствовать себе же причем за обе стороны? это вообще как?
Violent, exciting and aggressive. A truly Ps4 masterpiece. Definitely a must play in the PS4 games template.
I went in completely blind, seeing no spoilers and only watching trailers. That means I saw everything thay happens in this game in context and I finished it a few days ago and have sat on it to let my immediate reaction pass and write this logically. That being said, this game is a total waste of time for the player. The story is an -okay- concept that is delivered extremely poorly and heavy handedly. A complete assassination of the characters of the original game that ends in a mean spirited and unsatisfying way. If you enjoyed the first game for the relationship between ellie and joel, pass this one up as it has nothing to do with that. It manages to make you hate everyone in it and leaves you feeling empty after finishing it. Definitely overstays its welcome for about 15 hours too. Graphics are obviously great and gameplay is basically the same just flashier with a few new toys. Pass this one up guys, dont let the hype get to you. Not even going to go into how there are literally character skin swaps and false lines recorded just to be in the trailers to mislead the consumer about what this game is about. Naught Dog and Niel Druckman **** this one up. Big time.
The last of us part 1 made me feel like a dad, all protective of Ellie, screaming at the screen when she wonders off... so excited to have jumped back into this world. I've always enjoyed the story telling from naughty dog and this is no different, I know there are controversies about this title online but Ellie has always been, at least to me the main driver of this series. Without introducing spoilers I did however lose interest in the second half of the game and at that point became less enjoyable.
good graphic. a very beautiful game that constantly surprises with its landscapes very adult seromoral story ,a game that gives food for thought. thank you very much for game neil.
This game looks amazing and I love some of the new stuff you can do but in all honesty... 1) story is HORRIBLE absolutely HORRIBLE. 2) playing as Abby sucked the story right out of me I honestly wanted to stop playing at first I wasn’t as excited anymore so Naughty Dog thought they had a good idea but it was a terrible idea to make half the game about a character who killed one of my all time fave characters. 3) way too many cut scenes WAY TOO MANY. 4) sex in a game was a nice touch if the girl didn’t look like Sylvester Stallone.
Turn this game into a movie and you'd get a bad if not horrible movie But take all the movie out of this game and you'd have a pretty decent game. But no one's here for the gameplay so it's a massive disappointment. 4/10
This game left me speechless by the end credits. It made me laugh, made me cry and made me angry all in the span of a few minutes. A real rollercoaster ride of emotion that I have not felt since the first iteration but I feel this is even more so. I know it has received a lot of hate from fans but personally speaking I do not think those criticisms are justified. The gameplay is both fluid and brutal and is a huge step up from the first title. Graphically speaking it is without peer and the level of detail is out of this world amazing. As a game about love, hate and loss and the consequences from ones actions combined with all the technical flourishes makes this game a flawless experience. I spent 41 hours with it almost reaching Platinum and now into new game plus, so I know the game inside and out and it was just an incredible experience for me. I would highly recommend this if you are into brutal arthouse or grindhouse films/games. It was marketed as mainstream but it really isn't, I equate to films like 8mm or Ichi the Killer, brutal but brilliant at the same time.
It’s ok. The gameplay is almost exactly like the first one but still pretty fun. Got bored after half way through. The story doesn’t keep you coming back like the first one. Graphics are awesome.
Pure garbage! Not because of the social issues people are complaining about, I could care less about all that noise. The story of Ellie was complete on part 1, a story based on another part of the world or country would have been the move. Also the game is buggy and unplayable at times.
The game had notable improvements in graphics and gameplay. But the story is the main killer for me. Joel dies. And Ellie didn't get the revenge she wanted at the end even though she could have killed(or cripple) the culprit. She loses everything, her girl, the kid, her fingers(she can't play Joel's guitar) and suffered through PTSD most of the time in the game. The second playable character Abby is the women who killed Joel. Whoa! Her life is pretty ok if it's compared with Ellies. Also Joel and Tommy rescue this women from the infected hoard and later she killed him. Nothing's brutal than this. No one can sympathise with this women. They try to make us feel sympathy towards Abby in this way, Abby should play with a dog at some part of the story which we are made to kill in Ellie's playthrough. There is practically no message that would exist in this case. They just exploited the fact the humans feel an attachment to the characters/people/whatever they spend time with and use it to make them feel horrible through the playthrough. There is no message. Some literature pundits(like those critics) would say that this game teaches that revenge is worthless blah blah, If someone's sibling/parent/SO get's brutally murdered in front of them no sane person in the world would be like "Oh! I learnt from some books/games that revenge is bad, so let's not find that person and get them arrested, or let's pardon them if they are arrested". This game makes us feel miserably unless you are some art/literature person who can dig out positive meanings out of everything, If you are a normal person who isn't like that then don't buy it.
Bueno, el juego TLU 2, tiene un gameplay expectacular, unas mecanicas que impresionan, unos graficos dignos de años de trabajo, pero una historia y guion fatales, no han pasado ni dos horas de peli-juego (y si puesto que son 5 minutos de cinematica por 10-15 de juego), y ya cansa y agita al expectador de tanta mamada que quieren dar, la muerte de joel es un punto clave para el desarrollo del juego, pues sin esta el resto no tiene sentido alguno, pero luego que tenemos, personajes forzados a que uno tenga que empatizar con ellos y no es por ser homofobico ni esas mamadas, pero haber, te fuerzan a querer algo, que si esta o no, en nada afecta a la jugabilidad si elie es lesbiana pues esta bien, pela, yo quiero un juego donde tenga que sobrevivir y explorar , pero ¿qué te dan? eso con esa historia que dises puaj, que mierda estoy jugando y mata todo lo bueno del juego, es sierto es un buen juego por lo que mencione al incio, pero en estos juegos no es posibible jugar sin que la histroria este presente, no es como un fornite o un call of duty, que pueden tener buenos gameplay, y si ves o no la historia pela, pero en este caso no, porque la base del juego es su historia, hace años cuando salio el primer TLu lo que a muchos nos encanto fue su historia, el ver como los personajes ivan creciendo y desarrollandose de a poco, con un buen game play y mecanicas, pero ahora nos dan esta mierda de guion y de historia y se cagan, litermaemnte en el juego, es un buen juego, inetntentan ser inlcuisivos pero,no de la manera correcta, sino como peliculas que han fracasado , lo quieren meter a la fuerza, y asi ni la ropa entra. Por eso le doy 0, porque si la historia esta mal, no importa su gameplay, porque no dejas de pensar. QUE mierda estoy jugando.
Terrible - I opened an account with Metacritic just to leave this review. Indeed, what the establishment ‘professional reviewers’ ignore is that a game is more about the gameplay and graphics. It needs to have emotional appeal and storytelling that can endear the gamer. The LOU1 had this in abundance. However, the LOU2 in its cause to ‘subvert expectations’ has given us something cheap, gut-wrenching and non-sensical which leaves (especially, fans of this franchise.) you feeling absolutely empty and resigned, e.g. the application of Joel’s death was similar to the death of Luke Skywalker. What were these people thinking?
Not worth our time & money. Neil Druckmann should be known as Drunk man after this disappointing game. Nothing is good about it. The ending sucks. This game just wanna push the illuminati transgender & lesbian agenda. That's all that it cares about. This gme is not fun. Don't ever let the Drunk man make games ever again
I kept an open mind during the entire game and I still couldn’t accept the storyline. I don’t hate the storyline, but I think if they had presented it differently, I would’ve been more accepting. At first we get to play as this new character (Abby) in less than 1 hour into the gameplay, only to find out she’d kill Joel in the same first hour :) So it doesn’t only make you hate Abby, but also yourself for playing this game. At this point most of players would feel so much hate and anger toward Abby and want to kill her. But then half wary through the game, they make you play for 10 hours as Abby to make you understand her character. All I got from that 10 hours is that Abby enjoys killing people and she’s the exact opposite of Ellie. During Ellie’s part of gameplay, I loved Dina, but I wished that we got to see more of Tommy. They brought up Jessie which was the most unnecessary character. So in my opinion Tommy and Dina would’ve been more than enough as side characters. The only thing that kept me going was the thought that I would enjoy killing Abby, but that never happens. Leading to the worst ending ever. My score on this game is mostly for the graphics and gameplay. It’s a shame that the storyline ruined everything...
The last of us part 2 is a good game with breaking all the rules. It is not a bad thing in fact its good that a big company let that happen. But in that case we need a very very good ending which sadly this game didn't have. When I ended the last of us 1 I bended for that game and the last of us 1 was a masterpiece for me. But in the end of the last of us part 2 only thing what I did was to be silent I didn't know what should l say about this game because the game wasn't bad at all its a good game and by the way it wasn't a masterpiece and the end of the game disappointed me If you don't care about what the last of us 1 was you should play this game but if you really loved part 1 l thing its better you don't play part 2 Last but not least I want to say if the last of us 1 didn't exist this game didn't sell 4 million dollars
The Last of Us 2 is without a doubt one of, if not, the greatest games of all time. I’ve taken time to read some of the negative reviews posted on this platform and not to discredit anyone else’s opinion as it is entirely their own - however many of the comments are nonsensical. The game plays beautifully, with improved mechanics from the predecessor and some obviously well thought out new ideas added to the mix as well. In the moments where it feels as though you are repeating a sequence from the first game, I saw these as developer nods to long time fans. From the 30+ hour play through I was never once bored or felt as though I was in a repetitive loop. Now on to the story... No game, film, tv series or any media on any medium has taken me on an emotional roller coaster like this game does. From heart wrenching devastation, to uplifting humour all the way to eager excitement that kept me up to 2am on more than one occasion. Those looking for a colour by numbers story where good and evil are clearly defined and you’re told who to support should look elsewhere. This game above anything else is about the human experience, what trauma does to shape us, how perspective changes perception and so many more themes I could write more on. What’s worth mentioning though is the theme of cost. What all of our actions cost us and cost others is a huge theme of this game and I promise these moments will reverberate through you as you play. If you haven’t bought this game because you’re unsure of what to expect based on negative user reviews, do yourself a favour and get it, play it and make your own mind up. For me - I’ll be up to 2am for a few more nights to come replaying this epic adventure.
A complete disappointment. Not to be unfair, I can say that the graphics are fantastic and the gameplay is great (it's a delight to play). But this game is based on story. And the story is a disaster. A lot of people complain about Joel's death, but I see that as a good start for this part II, except for the fact that the survivor of the previous hardships plays the role of a muggle and dies like an idiot. No fan could stand that. The rest of the story would be good, if it weren't for the unbearable dose of social justice. No one cares if Ellie is a lesbian or if there are transsexuals in the game, but when the whole story is used to instill in the public’s head that men suck and Christians are horrible, it’s clear that politics was the most important and the fun was set aside. And we don't have fun. You see, there are no surviving men. Just a crippled Tommy and Abby (who is officially not a transsexual, but...). The main villains (everyone is villain, there are no heroes) are worshippers of woman (a kind of she-Jesus. Maybe another transexual?). And so on ... Then in the end what should have been the spectacular sequence of one of my favorite games takes this huge ZERO
story trash. Conbat and gameplay overall is good. Not enough ways to do a mission like other games give you. Just two thing kill or wait forever to let people go by. No set up for traps or other ways to kill enemy or anything
The gameplay and graphics are amazing and deserve high praise, but the story is a complete train wreck. my younger cousin(14) wanted to play the First game before the second came out, he doesn't play many games but wanted to give this one a try. I let him use my copy of the first game and he absolutely loved it. When the sequel came out he was amazed at first when it started, although throughout the main story he said to me "I don't want to play this anymore" I asked him why and he just said "This doesn't feel right, this game makes me feel bad". I played the rest of the game for him as he watched and in the end what he said broke my heart "Is that it? Why did they do that?", he was sad about how ruined the story was and what they have done to the characters that he loved from the first game. I watched his enthusiasm turn to hate as he lost interest and not want to watch anymore. Definitely not a worthy sequel to the original.


One of the best games Ive played. Great story which is so much more then Joel and Ellie. Very emotional game. Dont understand the negativity, but to each their own.
Its a beautiful game, showing perspectives of many characters at once how everyone is right according to themselves and many times being wrong in the worst way. The first game focused only on ellie and joel. While the second does the thing that probably no other post apocalyptic story had done. It shows many perspectives, how action of one becomes painful for someone else, the consequences. This game even does right by joel and ellie, maybe not that much but good enough. This game makes me love in fall with the first game even more, the way it is all connected, its beautiful. Knowing all the controversies surrounding this game, for me it was beautiful. This game is the very true representation of humanity, YES it does this better than any other game.
The Last of Us Part II is a true rollercoaster of strong feelings that are elicited from some bold story decisions. It goes without saying that it is a marvel to look, listen, and play as it is portraying the most beautifully realized and detailed urban post-apocalyptic world we have seen in a game to date. Although the story takes some turns that could be helped by some adjustments in their longevity, it nevertheless hits some truly high notes in their sentimental impact to the player.

The worst story ever. Naughty dog should be ashamed of themselves. My disappointment is immeasurable, I waited 5 years to play this, and they gave me a horrible trash. I just want to forget about this game.
Odiei a forma como descaracterizaram o Joel e a Ellie continuou agindo de forma imatura, mesmo após o ocorrido com o Joel, mas em relação ao gameplay, há uma notória melhoria em relação ao primeiro jogo.
Worst game ever. This is the Social Justice Trash that filled with much political agenda. Do no waste your money to buy this trash, poor storytelling and poor plot!!!!
Below average game! Especially for all the hype its maybe the worst exclusive this generation. For the life me I dont understand why they went with a whole new story and characters instead of continuing with the people we fell in love with smh. Very few changes that make a difference from the 1st one. Feels like the same game without the interesting story totally misses the mark thru out. Kinda a struggle to finish toward the end. Would rather go back and play the first one instead of this empty shell of a game
From the perspective of learning more about the world of TLOU, part II does a superb job of highlighting the raw, unrelenting lives of those who survived outbreak day. It may not be what fans wanted; it may not be what I wanted from the story, but it's certainly a story worth exploring. Actions have consequences and every single character will be held accountable for theirs. Soundtrack, gameplay, and graphics are the best I have ever seen.
Эта игра у меня вызвала противоречивые чувства, геймплей показался мне чересчур затянутым и середина игры буквально заставляет играть через силу. Нил сам наговорил многого мол в игре революционные анимации и прочее но на деле я не увидел ничего нового в сравнении с первой частью, фанатом которой я не являюсь. С начала игры я понимал что Джоэл умрет, ибо из за чего еще Элли будет мстить? Ну да ладно, я же всё-таки положительный обзор выставил. Играя в эту игру сначала я удивился реально красивой графике, я осматривал каждый метр пока это не стало надоедать, глаза начали уставать и болеть со временем а еще клонило в сон. Мне баги местами помешали получать удовольствие, лицевые анимации иногда выглядели очень смешно, а в катсценах сломанная бита прилипала мне к заднице и громко стучала... Разнообразие настроек сложности игры меня так-же порадовало, можно настроить именно то что вам нужно. Всеми ненавистная Эбби мне понравилась больше чем Элли которую превратили в монстра (лучше бы Элли убили и оставили Джоэла) и мне как-то верится больше что накачанная женщина солдат (которая выглядит как машина смерти) может засчистить весь город нежели чем какая-то эмо девочка на пару с подружкой (этот отряд мести выглядел очень смешно). Уже с самого начала мне показался странным тот факт, что убили только Джоэла и не стали трогать остальных, с того момента я и начал присматриватся к позиции Эбби, и заметив как Элли убивает вообще всех людей подряд она мне показалась невменяемой, и я ждал момента в конце когда будет выбор, убить Элли или Эбби. Будь бы выбор то я думаю народ бы оценил больше. Середина игры оказывается моментом, который хочется узнать. Но тебе дают 10 часов игры за Эбби, это заставляет тебя играть буквально насильно. Но эти 10 часов и показали мне этого персонажа и всякие другие интересные моменты. Со временем когда я видел тех людей которых убила Элли и те трупы в морге я начал понимать что же она натворила, вспоминаются слова Артура Моргана. Внешность Эбби поначалу мне показалась отталкивающей но потом как-то привык и перестал обращать на это внимание (привязанная к столбу она выглядела покрасивее и как-будто даже стала худее), и мне реально она показалась куда более человечной чем Элли (еще сцена секса показалась мне лишней). В целом концовка мне совсем не понравилась, и игра показалась какой-то неполной...но я получил удовольствие от некоторых моментов, местами было довольно грустно, геймплея как по мне было слишком много и он начинал скорее действовать на нервы. Думал что поставить, и в итоге поставил 8 из 10 так как игру я прошел не без удовольствия, геймплей и стрельба мне понравилась куда больше чем в первой части и расчлененка выглядит очень жестко, сценарий неплох но сюжет поставлен неправильно.
Everything about the game is great - living up to "Naughty Dog Quality"... except the garbage plot. Lazy pacing, horrible character intros and management, insane amounts of plot armor (Ellie should have died like 5 times but they just decide not to kill her?!), and a story that doesn't fit with the characters of the first game at all. The plot/pacing/character development are so bad that it ruins the experience - it's giving me mass effect 3 flashbacks. You could have kept all the same messages and had a much better game if you had better pacing and character development (even just moving the order of things around). Some much of the great game play is ruined by the frustration of the previous cutscene that you can't enjoy it - and to those saying hey that empty unhappy, everything was meaningless feeling you get when you finish was the goal, "the game is supposed to have that"...why would I want my video game to end like that? Sad and frustrated sure, deep meaningful tragedy is powerful - not what we got here. Try and justify the experience all you want, but I would have been happier not having the Last Of Us world ruined for me by playing this game.

Bons graficos e gameplay, porem o jogo é massante, a historia não e boa, desconstroem todos os personagens, furos de roteiros, peso ideológico, uma pena pois não faz jus ao primeiro game.
Garbage game by a dying studio. Too bad, I used to really LOVE Naughty Dog and Uncharted 1-3 as well as The Last of Us 1, but they're not who they used to be. Garbage characters, garbage story, a major step down from The Last Of Us 1. I thought of giving it a 1/10 instead of 0/10 for occasionally having good graphics, but after playing Ghost of Tsushima, in comparison I can see that this game is lacking in graphics too. I still can't believe this is the Naughty Dog I used to love. Guess I can only say, thank you Naughty Dog for making Insomniac and Sucker Punch shine. Now they're the AAA studio and you're the C studio. Maybe your next game should be a TLOU Pinball game. You should have Anita Sharteesian "consult" for that game too, I'm sure it'll be a major win.
While I didn’t think the original ever needed a sequel as the story ended perfectly; the way they’ve handled this was so bad that they’ve actually undermined the original. I was bored playing this by about half way and that’s something I never thought I’d say about a Naughty Dog game. By the final third I just wanted it over with so I could sell it. The gameplay is very much the same as the original with not much innovation. I didn’t mind that at first but after the 50th time sneaking around enemies it became robotic apart from a couple of exceptions. People praising this game for including lesbians, transgenders etc are missing the point. The story falls flat, they tried to be smart, daring and produce something shocking for the sake of being shocking but overall it’s totally dull and such a depressing game to play. If I anything I thought it was too violent! Something I never thought I’d say. I really loved the first game but I feel this one has tainted it, that’s how poor the story is. The writer’s egos got in the way unfortunately.
Before buying this awful game, do yourself a favor and rent it first. Play first 2 hrs or so. I seriously want my money back, but I bought it digital version.
Clearly this game has really awesome graphics, and totally awesome gameplay... but, totally garbage story, TLOU 1 is still the best, this game should've never existed.
It is a bad gameplay bad story Incredible stealth Graphics is amazing Story is very bad Worst ending ever for games

Como el pico juego qlo maloooooooo espere 7 años para jugar 2 misiones y darme cuenta que es como el ortooooooooo , vayan a jugar ghost of Tsushima ese juego si es una obra de arte
Игра просто хороша. Народ вы чего так ополчились на игру. Вы не оцениваете игровую механику, графику, игровой процесс и сюжет. Хватит ставить говно оценке игре за лгбт посыл.

The first game wasn’t groundbreaking in its gameplay, we’ve all played that game before in tomb raider, uncharted or dying light... it was the story and the evolving relationship between Joel and Ellie that made an impact. This sequel pulls sharply away from anything that made the first game stand out. In 30 years of gaming experience this is the biggest disappointment I can remember ever having

I have been playing for a long time and I would say that I am about to finish it and I liked it a lot .. I hope they make a multiplayer for PS5 that with this gameplay would be incredible! I hope the toxic community does not continue spoiling the game
Man, people are so angry these days. Spoiled kids. Back in the day we would have dreamed of such games. The game is absolutely beautiful, in every aspect.
gameplay is good, but the story is kinda meh. It forces the players into a narrative to forcefully makes you feel, pathetic and depressed. aside from visual upgrades, it is still the same hallway 3rd person shooter that does not add new to the game. the game is like an sjw idea put into game. the characters that they have developed for some reason become out of character for the sake of shock factor.
No. Awesome gameplay mechanics. Horrible WOKE stroyline. I would not recommend this to friends or family. Extremely try hard political propaganda. One word: cringe. I mean this in a bad way
Это не то чего я ожидал . Да , визуально игра красивая , но сюжет и его подача очень сильно расстроила меня.
It's awesome. It's not perfect, so I'd give it a 9.6, but rounded it's 10. The story isn't the same as the first one, but that wouldn't be easy to repeat. It was sad to lose a character, but that was the point of losing said character. The gameplay is better than the first.
This game is great, the gameplay is much better than the first game. The characters are great, the story is good but not as compelling as the first games. People are just triggered by some of the plot points and are riding the hate train caused by the leaks, it's ridiculous.
This game is terrible. The story is completely ruined by forcing you to play as a drab uninspired SJW inspired character that nobody asked for. Ellie is left to rot and none of this makes any sense. Even the core gameplay takes a massive step back. It’s more bland and basic than before with 0 thrills. Cutscenes are glitchy and the whole thing is a mess. I’m glad I took it back for Ghost of Tsushima. I’m having a waaaayy better time with that game. AAA revenge tale done masterfully.
The story is weak , There’s a lot of plot holes and flaws, bad writing. Gameplay is like playing the old game, don't take me wrong the old game is good, but this one has nothing to add to it , it felt like playing an old gen game, the good thing is the graphics is great , a lot of nostalgia, you will be engaged into the game with the sounds and the scenery. Which is a shame that was built on a weak story and a bad gameplay.
I’m giving the game a six out of 10 only because it does some things right and hell this may even go my my rating for the last of us part two is a six out of 10 hell that might even go down to a five out of 10 but currently for me it’s a six I do think things could’ve been done better and I do think somethings should’ve stayed the way they were but this game had me very disappointed And made me sad that I waited eight years for this Graphics are beautiful and if you like the last of a series I don’t know how much you’re gonna like this but if you really want to give it a try But find some were website that sells the game for less than $60 because it’s not worth that at the moment

Worst AAA title on the ps4 in all its lifespan, while the gameplay and graphics and sound were 10/10 the story was bad. I dont care they killed of joel but they spent the rest of the game trying to get me to sympathize with abby who i didnt care for i barely know her i didnt want to know her and i felt they wanted to portray ellie as the bad guy. Also the main quest of the game is trying to get revenge on abby for killing joel but it doesnt even let you do that which makes the entire game pointless. I flat out hated the game after the ending. Overall because of the bad story i couldn't find myself enjoying the graphics or the gameplay or the music.
This game is amazing in many ways. It is also one of the only games that I have seen with such a toxic fanbase. Personally, I think this game is the best game you can play on the PS4 in terms of graphics and gameplay. Story is pretty divisive and may not be for the faint of heart; especially those who love Joel. Halley Gross has done and amazing job with the narrative and Kurt Margenau and Anthony Newman have done an amazing job. Hats off to Neil Druckmann for creating this masterpiece. I loved almost every character with Lev and Owen being my new favourite. Abby was well written and had a sense of humour that not many had. If I had criticism, it would be that Abby’s section is just way too long and the ending is quite disproportionate to the story. All and all, it is a masterpiece and the best game on the PS4
Can’t understand all the hate behind this game. Played it, finished it and it was an emotional rollercoaster A masterpiece. If you love videogames you will give this game a chance
Una porquería de juego si de historia se habla, la narrativa es horrible, lo peor que he jugado en mi vida. Aunque gráficamente a la vez es de lo mejor que se ha visto nunca. Los spoilers, las expectativas tan altas que tenía por este juego, la comunidad tóxica, el spam abusivo que recibió este juego y otros demás apartados y/o argumentos me hacen darle esta calificación, ya sea merecida o no, es mi opinion y mi calificación.
To talk about The Last of Us 2, you have to begin with The Last of Us. The story was incredible, with likeable characters. The beginning and end both brought tears to my eyes. The world was beautiful, the story incredible and the gameplay was solid for its time. The last of Us 2 had a beautiful world, maybe the prettiest on PS4. Gameplay has not really moved on since the last game and it felt dated. Also, the world felt empty at times. The story and character are both trash. I put them in one group, because they are related. The old characters are almost unrecognisable, only in the flashbacks you get a Last of Us feeling. The new characters are not likable, either because they are written poorly, or because they are to briefly in the game. I get the feeling they changed the story mid development and this also killed a lot of character development. Also this games feels very manipulative. And that is not a bad thing. Good writing is manipulating your feelings, whilst not making you feel manipulated. This game is so obvious in its manipulating, it takes you out of the game. I must admit the death of Joel felt **** and made me hate the game for a moment, but the could have saved it with good writing. The didn’t. They made you playing as Abby. Abby is a weirdly unlikable character and they make you play as her for a good portion of the game. First I thought I didn’t like her because she killed Joel, but I could understand where she is coming from, so that was not all of it. Was it because she looked weird? I would like to think I am more enlightened than that. But I did like the MMA fighter in the Mandalorian(edit: Gina Carano) and found here believable. After finishing the game I found out they used the body model from a female weightlifter/athlete, the face of a second women and the voice of an third women. They created an uncanny valley effect I couldn’t get over. I think it can be done well, this was not it. But in the end it doesn’t matter. I didn’t care about the characters, I didn’t care about the story, I didn’t care about the game. I lost my job of 20 years the week before this came out, so as a fan of part 1, I was excited I had the time to play this game. This game made me feel worse than losing my job. Neil Druckmann: “The Last of Us 2 is not meant to be fun.”. Well Neil, mission accomplished.
I have no words for how much the story sucked. They managed screwing up a beloved character, killing another in an over simplistic manner and to top it off they force you to engage and control a new character (who by the way had way more charisma and attention than the main chars) and expect you to care about her. All bad decisions leading up to a repetitive game with a uninteresting story centering itself in a character you don't care about. Way to go people. I've been making myself endure the game simply because I could not believe how much they f'd it up. Don't buy it, it's an exercise in frustration and patience. A wonderful game followed by complete trash that has probably disrupted what could be an awesome franchise. Will not but the next one.
As an avid fan of the original The Last of Us, I was really looking forward to playing Part 2. I really liked the direction of the first game, the character development, the whole plot - it’s one of the finest examples in video gaming history. I wish I could forget it, just to experience it all over again. However, I missed this unique experience when playing The Last of Us Part 2. I remember it as bleak, sad, empty, extremely violent most of the time, with only very few moments of joy. If you’re into that, this game may be for you. It is is one of the most beautiful looking games available on PS4, with top-notch acting, soundtrack and level design. I'd wish the whole gaming experience was this good either. Some parts of the gameplay are indeed more elegant compared to the original, but haven't really been improved. Gameplay still feels like the first one, this time with less environment puzzles – here it's just constant killing. I’m fine with violence in games. But I've got no wish to play a dark edgy sequel with one revenge story, that thinks it's being cleverer – and yet comes across as a misery simulator. It makes Ellie into a character that’s one of the worst in video game history. I always choose story & characters over everything else. Compared to the strong cast of characters from the first game, the new characters are very bland. At some point you’re forced to play as Abby for 10 hours, who I couldn't relate to – or any of her friends. Even if I didn’t agree with her actions, it’s hard not to understand them to a degree. But the whole plot was atrocious and I’m not even complaining about the fact Abbe killed Joel (her father’s killer). I’m fine with that. But why did she kill Joel, after hunting him down for years – but let the killer of her friend and lover go? The game is a petty revenge story but in the end it isn’t. The story just goes nowhere. What did I even play for 25 hours? For me It wasn't a compelling story. The playable flashbacks of the good old times were probably my favourite part of this game. Because TLOU for me is and always will be about the relationship of Ellie and Joel. It's what made the first game special. Of course I was happy when the trailers came out, that teased another Ellie / Joel adventure. Turns out, it was a fraud. Joel wasn't even supposed to play a larger part in this one, they just swapped his character model. I'd call this false advertising and to me it kind of feels like "No Man’s Sky“ all over again. I guess you can't trust anyone these days and I'll think twice before I’ll buy a Naughty Dog game ever again. And that makes me sad to write, because I loved this studio back in the older days. Overall, the feeling Part II left, is the same after watching Game of Thrones S8. Disbelief. Disappointment. I feel sorry for the developers who have been working so hard on this game for almost a decade. Naughty Dog’s talented enough to make a wonderful and worthy sequel. They just didn’t.
Тупая, скучная, бессмысленная, депрессивная и затянутая игра. Геймплей неплохой, но все-равно недалеко ушёл от той унылости, что была в оригинале. Все бои с мобами опять происходят на аренах, мобов кидают пачками всю игру. Открытые локации хоть и интересно исследовать, но они все равно достаточно небольшие и не имеют вообще никаких динамических стычек с врагами, всё заранее заготовлено. Сама сложность абсолютно никакая, во всяком случае высоком. Возможно на максимальной получше. Если бы не было второй половины игры (либо она была подана просто через катсцены), то намного лучше было бы. Где-то на 18 часу от сюжета начинаешь засыпать, а многочисленные тупые моменты, которые в игре просто на каждом шагу, только сильнее бросаются в глаза. Построение сюжета отвратительно. Персонажи скучные, кроме Элли и Джоэля вообще никто не интересен и намеренные попытки привязать игрока к ним выглядят абсолютно убого. Есть несколько душевных, трогательных и неплохо поставленных моментов, но на фоне остального сюжета они полностью меркнут. Постановка сцен, актёрская игра и работа со звуком просто на высочайшем уровне, жаль что по большей части только за эти аспекты и хочется хвалить. Графика хоть местами и невероятная, но за ней стоят тучи фильтров, графических артефактов и множество других технических ограничений. Так же ближе к концу, вместе с сюжетом, графика как будто становится всё хуже и хуже. Музыка не выделяется и просто служит лёгким дополнением к сценам, вообще за всё прохождение можно даже не заметить, что у игры есть саундтрек. Если нужна нормальная игра про месть или просто нормальная игра, то лучше в Xenoblade Chronicles 1 поиграть.
Finished the game, the plot is terrible and nonsense. The combat and graphic were ok. Not expecting for part 3 or any games that will be relate to this game. Hope Naughtydog can make a new title and change the style of storytelling.
Graphics are really good. the gameplay is just average. But the story is garbage. I have had dreams that had more coherent stories than this. What a shame. Niel Druckman should be fired.
It really is sad to see how far mob mentality will go to destroy something. At worst this game is average, meaning 5/10. Anyone who says otherwise is lying to them selves or hasn't played the game. Although I don't think its a 10/10, it is a solid 8-9/10 for me. The graphics are easily 10/10, the voice acting is top notch, the action is violet and messy, the stealth is tense and methodical, the infected are creepy and scary. The only reason I am not giving it a 10/10 is because I think character development for secondary characters is pretty weak and the story has weak moments as well. But other than that it's still a good game.
This is a wonderful game, with a story that is not what you would expect. All the backlash is the same issue as the Star Wars sequels, complaining fanboys that didn’t get the story THEY wanted, so they’re complaining. This game also works real life social issues into it in a tasteful way that isn’t shoved down your throat. Playing this can actually teach people something.

Before I buy the game I thought this game is bad but when I played it I got that this game is great game play and graphics are awesome but the story is a little boring Ashley Johnson as ellie she is done a phenomenal job Joel was a commercial guy he is not that much in game Sound effects are nice shooting in this game is so nice Gustavo santanolla done a great job again with his golden fingers The environment in the game is so big And AI will RIP you apart in harder difficulty thanks for reading

This game had so much potential, and had amazing development, but instead we get the agenda fueled disaster that is this game. I gave this game 6 hours, and I could not play it, it is obvious of the agenda that naughty dog is pushing, and that they do not care about the fans that played the original, every person that I have asked, that played this game, said it is disappointing and not memorable, the biggest regret I have is the money that I wished I could get back to buy something better crafted, naughty dog, you have let me down, and I will now be very cautious
Everything outside of the plot and pacing is phenomenal. What ND was able to do with the PS4 hardware is very impressive and a ton of work. The gameplay is very good, controls great, level design fairly balanced. Where the game falls flat on it's face is provide a convincing plot. Essentially the game has you see all of the blow back of Joel basically exterminating the Firefly base. One of the surgeon's daughters is Abby, so from her perspective Joel is an awful person. She's hellbent on revenge which she obtains and experiences guilt. Over time both lead characters - Abby/Ellie - become aware of each other's perspective. The player gets to experience each first hand. Abby gradually grows and tries to make amends by helping Lev and pursue the Fireflies and help restore humanity/society. Based on what the game shows us with certainty, Ellie does not grow. After 2 years of living the good life on a farm, she effectively ends her marriage and goes on a weeks/months long quest to California to murder Abby. She finds that she's been emaciated as a slave and tortured for months. Abby still wants to leave it, but no - Ellie like a sociopath must kill. So many times I tried to walk away, and not initiate the final blow because it is so morally repulsive, but the game forces you to to end the game. She ultimately stops short of drowning Abby, but based on her return to the empty farm and leaving the farm, it's ambiguous about whether or not Ellie has grown at all as a person. Only from recent interviews do we see that she does. Had I not had that confirmation, I would have given this game a 6/10 because I have no interest in partaking in sociopathic murder porn. It's one thing to fight for survival or if the enemy doesn't give you a choice, but the game forces you to. Based on interviews, it's clear that they didn't make Ellie's PTSD a convincing enough excuse. Abby had PTSD too, but she grew. Also from the interviews - apparently until 18 months ago the ending was to kill Abby - whoever at ND changed that you saved the franchise, it would have been GoT all over again.
Um jogo extraordinário que reconstrói um novo arco para a história dos videogames e com certeza não é um jogo para qualquer um, principalmente aos mais apegados as origens pois, ele explora novos personagens e abre um leque de possibilidades em mundo verdadeiramente pós apocalíptico onde tudo é valido.
Un gioco oltre che raccontare una storia deve divertire. Con questo non ci sono riuscito e quindi per me ha fallito l’obbiettivo. Mi sono dovuto forzare per finirlo. Nessuna critica perché la fruizione dell’arte é molto soggettiva ma da qui a definirlo un capolavoro ce ne passa...
This game doesn't deserve a 0, but neither does it deserve a 10 or the title of a 'masterpiece'. It really puts the legitimacy of media outlets even more into question. Here is my breakdown: Gameplay 5 Graphics 9 (kudos to the art team!) Story 0 Result: 4 Let me say this first: TLOU didn't need a sequel. It just didn't. The story was concluded - yes, there were questions unanswered, but it was a satisfying end nevertheless. Now, if you decide to make a sequel despite that, there's going to be pressure to get it right. They didn't get it right. JOEL AND ELLIE made the first game so special, their relationship - now, we're shifting the focus entirely away from that, to characters we can't possibly care for and are bland to say the least. The relationship between Dina and Ellie is completely and utterly lacking chemistry, while Abbie is just a horribly written character and you are FORCED to play her. On a side note I want to mention that her physique is not attainable in a post-apocalyptic world with sparse resources. A woman cannot attain this body without steroids or an impeccable (high carbs, high protein) diet with an intensive daily weight lifting and cardio routine (twice a day, usually). It seems like it was important to ND, so I feel like it's equally important to criticise this character design choice which a lot of people don't seem to be happy with; understandingly so. KILLING JOEL in such a disgraceful manner after just two hours, to fuel a revenge plot line which eventually culminates in an underwhelming finale that should suggest to us that revenge is ultimately pointless...I'm sorry, that's just an uninspired premise. Considering Joel saved her right before, Naughty Dog gets caught up in their own narrative and morale they are trying to convey. Joel deserved better in many ways, and his trust is not easily earned in the first game; but for some reason he is giving it freely in TLOU2. IT COULD HAVE WORKED, don't get me wrong, but not the way it was executed. Maybe if you could've given us more moral choices, a way to save Joel and the end, and so on. Instead they're forcing this storyline on us. "REVERTING EXPECTATIONS" seems to be the motto, but not in a good way; combined with illogical writing (similar to Game of Thrones Season 8) and a way too depressing, hopeless and overly violent tone - failing to continue their legacy. NEIL DRUCKMANN'S ego himself is disturbing to me, failing to address criticism towards the game or the way he's handled his employees in an adult manner. He's been misleading the audience with trailers. He even put a card of himself into the game (100% brain, a villain). It's bizarre to say the least. I'm starting to think he wrote this game for himself and did it for the shock value, not the fans of the franchise. (LASTLY, it's very sad to see negative voices being discredited by media and companies alike. We already saw that with the last Jedi, and now it's happening again with TLOU2. We are putting the money in your pockets. We should be allowed to love and hate a game. And maybe, just maybe, something could actually be learned from criticism.)
C'era grande attesa per un gioco del calibro di tlou2. Molti criticano per ciò che avviene ad inizio del gioco. Anche io ero molto deluso ma purtroppo per fare un seguito questo era l'unico modo. Solo che se non aggiungevano la storia di Abbie il gioco durava massimo 15 ore. Molti non vedevano l'ora di godersi Ellie, personaggio molto amato da tutti i giocatori. Poi però ti ritrovi a condividere grandissima parte del gioco con Abbie e tutto ciò è noioso, e infine non concludere nulla da entrambe le parti. Da elogiare la grafica, però 0 emozioni rispetto al primo (che mi ha emozionato da farmi quasi piangere), IA scarsa (il compagno si trova sempre davanti il nemico ma è come se fosse invisibile), quando scendo da qualche posto, il movimento del personaggio è quasi anomalo. Doveva essere la rivoluzione, il gioco dei giochi, ma red dead redemption 2 è ancora 3 gradini superiore. Non gridate al capolavoro perché non lo è, e secondo me non vincerà il GOTY, pompato dalla critica di tutto il mondo, ma la vera critica sono gli utenti e avere uno user score di 5.6 vuol dire che qualcosa non è andata per la maggior parte dei giocatori. Io come titolo darei: The last of us, le vendette incompiute.
This game is OK. To have to even be saying this about my favourite franchise of all time is a letdown of its own. The game is stunning. From environmental detail to facial recognition and character animation it's all a leap in the right direction as far as technology goes. The gameplay itself is something i was pleasantly okay with. I also enjoyed gameplay from the first one and though they're quite similar in how they play, the second one has obvious improvements and doesn't feel as clunky. So of course we get to the storyline and character development. Unfortunately, this is where the game drops off tremendously for me. I can understand how they were trying to make me sympathise and care for the character that is abby and frankly, she isn't a terrible character. I even found myself enjoying some of her missions more than ellies as they were more creative and adrenaline fueled at times. I also enjoyed the implementation of yara and lev. I thought they were great flushed out characters with interesting enough plotlines. This however does not mask the fact that abby commits quite an unforgivable act on one of my favourite video game characters to date in what i see as an impossibly stupid scenario to be put into. I also REALLY disliked the times i was forced to chase down the likes of tommy and worst of all, beat the living hell out of ellie. This just made me extremely uncomfortable and i felt sick by the end of it to be completely honest. Not in a good way. To top this whole fiasco off, i didn't even get revenge in the end. After watching such an anti-climactic ending to an otherwise disappointing game as far as story takes it, i was left with a really sour taste in my mouth. You send ellie all the way to santa barbara after killing thousands of people along the way and she suddenly decided it wasn't the right thing to do? That makes 0 sense and it really highlights the measure of disappointment i had with the conclusion as ellie sat there in the water realizing she lost everything and got nothing in return. She deserves better than that and joel deserved better than he got. The infuriating part about it is that there are glimpses of quality writing and storytelling in here. The flashbacks that are littered throughout the game were awesome to play through. I just think you sacrificed a rock-solid foundation that is joel and ellie for a shaky, kindergarden built chair of a foundation that is abby. I don't know how you expected people to appreciate this game for what it is. It baffles me. What's done is done though. Graphics - 10/10 Gameplay - 8/10 Character development - 6/10 Voice acting - 10/10 Audio - 9/10 Soundtrack - 9/10 Storyline - 5/10
When I saw the user score at first I thought it was review bombing. I played the game, the graphics and animations are the best I’ve ever seen in a video game. The story is the worst, it is like they dumbed down the characters we love from the first one. The plot armors are countless to keep some characters alive and kill some characters off pointlessly to steer the story the way they want to term the story as unpredictable or bold. You can see where the story is going and why Joel was killed right from the start because he was talking about that incident at the start of the game with Tommy. The story was not interesting. Not to mention it is false advertising by showing Joel and replaced him with Jesse in the game. Ellie killed hundreds of people to get to Abby then unable to kill her because revenge is bad? Well, she killed tons already, why not kill her too that’s the one responsible. This game sucks.
This is the WORST story I've ever seen. Image that someone kills your dad and you say "oh nvm I forgive him" then walk away.
The game is awful ending is garbage and the character abby is thrash a character no body wants the whole story is awful is mediocre at it finest is a big **** you to the first game

The graphics, gameplay, soundtrack, atmosphere everything is incredible. The only problem is the story. It has a few ups and downs and and the side characters aren't memorable. You need to be really open minded and let that game tell you the story it wants to tell. Overall a very sold game and I'll recommend it to everyone PS4 owner.
Ok, almost done with my 2nd playthrough..but I've seen the ending maybe eight times by now..so I get the idea. Negatives first: 1.) I've seen some others say this and I agree..this should have been Last of Us 3..if there was going to be such a thing. I can deal with Joel meeting a similar fate..but ALL of these new characters should have been built up way more prior. Flashbacks and perspective absolutely does help..but having them not come across as random people would have been much better in the justification for such a BOLD move, imo! It's not just Abby, who has some redeemable qualities like so many others say..it's not..but she could have been given way more personality. Now, maybe they'll fill in the blanks with the show that's due out. Maybe, maybe not and while I PERSONALLY like/agree with the ending..they didn't do themselves a lot of favors to the general fan. 2.) The dogs. Game-wise..it's a good tactic..but I'd rather they just kept using mines..or turrets..or cameras. Yeah, that's generic as hell...but generic beats me having to kill any more of them. Bravo to the dog that was mo-capped for this, btw! 3.) How Tommy/Joel were initially trapped. It would have made a lot more sense if Abby was actually the one that saved them..and then they had to follow her to where she was staying. Whether you agree with what Joel did was 'right'/justified..that's up to you..but they DID save her. Also..I would have liked to hear ANY back/forth between her/Joel about the elephant in the room. Same with Ellie/Abby..but especially Joel/Abby. ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Everything else was GREAT. The combat is SO MUCH better, visuals, the flashbacks were extremely well done, sfx/voices/music, graphics. The photomode was nice..all the new random options were fantastic. You can change the controls (which I didn't) is always a plus The new factions were cool..especially the seraphites. The ending...a lot of people wanted VENGEANCE. Well, what was killing Abby going to do and more importantly..do you think Joel would want her to do that? Why'd she go there at all you say? Well, she obviously felt one thing and her mind was eventually changed at the end. No one else has done that before? Also...if he had to do it all over again..I know he said he'd do just that..but I don't know..maybe knocking them out or pushing the doctors out of the way would have been a smarter move on his part? Anyways...I do not think Joel would want Ellie to finish Abby. No matter how much hate she has..how much hate you might have for her..and again..just projecting here..but for how much Joel is shown to be softened in all the flashbacks..I just don't see it. Others said it should have been a choice to kill Abby. Well, that wouldn't really work if Abby/Lev were the main characters in TLOU 3 (which I wouldn't recommend (at this point))?! ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Basically..I think this game/story will age a lot better once the show is out (to a varying degree). Underdeveloped/seemingly random characters and dogs..those are my issues (currently). Oh and the stadium the Wolves are at...don't know if it was the Huskies/Seahawks..that looked INCREDIBLE. ... and nice job of hiding all the cards/coins! ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- In closing..this story is ALL about perspective. Who is the hero? Who is the villain? If this person does that thing to that person..does it catch up to that person 15 years from now in that way..or this way? Was that person justified? If not, why not? It did a great job creating/furthering the conversation and I appreciate that. There are no villains..no heroes..just the person/people you empathize with more than the other. 8.25 out of 10
Pretty much a tale of two halves, the first half with Ellie is near perfect, one of my favorite stories I've played, but from beginning as Abby through the rest of the game the story is so all over the place and lazily written, it makes little to no sense. Two of the most anticlimactic final encounters I've ever played which basically render everything you've done in the game pointless. Visually and graphically one of the best titles of this generation, sadly everything this game does right is completely overshadowed by everything the story does wrong.
للاسف هذا الجزء جداً مخيب للامال من عدة نواحي منها وهي القصه: كانت ضعيفه و غير مترابطه جدا و تشتيت في الانتقال من فتره زمنيه الى اخرى الصدمه الثقافيه : حيث كان هناك دور من الكاتب و المخرج باضافة الشذوذ هو شي ليس متقبلاً لدينا لا اجتماعيا ولا دينياً وهذا الشي كان محبطً لنا حيث انه كان له دور كبير في العبه وكنت اتمناء ان يكون لي الاختيار في قرارات الشخصيه هذا الشان
I know many would find wrong of me to put a 0 in a game with soo many good things going for it, like the graphics, the gameplay, the scenery is great too, but when I judge a game I do it in the basis of my general enjoyment of it, I don't really care if it has some glitches or drop some frames here and there, if I feel great about a game I care for non of those other things. This is not one of those times, I hated playing this, when I was done playing all I wanted was my money and my time back, completely regret the experience and I cant recommend this to anyone, if fact I would go as far as to say that if you love the first one, like I do, do not play this game.

Сюжет дно, вторую половину игры вообще не хочется проходить.

As a massive fan of the first game and the characters, I can't tell you how let down I am by this game. Yes the game looks gorgeous, and plays well, but after what they do to Joel and then making you play as his killer i had to stop. Just awful writing.
Ok, en el apartado grafico, visual y todo lo relacionado con la creacion de las mecanicas de juego, se cumple. Pero no le veo el caso alabar algo que para estos tiempos debe ser un estandar. La historia es buena asecas pero al final no se logro nada, al menos Joel en el juego uno salvo a Elli. Aca nos privan de la venganza, por ser lo politicamente correcto y nos prohiben matar a la protagonista de lo que al parecer sera el tercer juego. Genial!!
Please ignore the negative reviews. This game is outstanding. The negative reviews are all there because the story is controversial - but it drives the entire game, and if, like me, you don't let video characters emotionally control you to an alarming level where I would consider going to therapy - it's not bad at all. In fact it's great. And the gameplay is great fun too. Doesn't deserve any less than a 10 - as an experience around 30 hours long it's beaut.
I dont think they did a terrible job with the story, i just hate that this is the story they chose to tell. I am no writer, but even i can come up with a few interesting plots that could have been the story for a sequel to tlou1, plots that gave the characters powerful meaningful story arcs. They chose to brutally demonstrate the consequences of a revenge cycle of spiralling misery. I can see how people who may never have lived through similar cycles and meditated upon their actions can find this truly educational, and possibly even life changing, if they were truly unaware of the ability for people to commit the worst evils in the name of love, and to become obsessed with revenge to the detriment of everything else in their life prior to playing this game. I personally did not enjoy this game or learn any deep new messages. It was just brutal and painful and traumatic for a lesson i already knew. Play at your own risk, its not an enjoyable experience and left me feeling just empty and sad for what is left of a once loved character.
The plot of this game is an insult to the legacy built up by TLOU 1. The only like-able characters are Ellie and Joel, but they butcher their stories and miss out on delving deeper into their relationship. Instead they focus on a new character that feels very forced, and is extremely hard to empathize with because of an unforgivable act they commit early in the game. The entire second half of this game felt very cringe and was hard to play through. What was Naughty Dog thinking when they wrote this plot? If you were expecting a sequel that had any similarity in terms of the world to TLOU 1, then unfortunately this game will be extremely disappointing. The end leaves you feeling empty and asking yourself what was the point of this entire game. The TLOU 2 trailers should be considered false advertisement because they purposely avoid showing the horrendous second half of the game. If you liked TLOU 1 gameplay then you will like TLOU 2 gameplay. Visuals were great too, but the lackluster plot takes away from the entire experience. It's such a shame, and it hurts as a fan of TLOU 1 to see the direction they took this game.

Игра прекрасна во всем, да повестка и современные тенденции гипертолерантности добавили ложку дёгтя, но в общем игра шикарна. До платины не дотянул пару достижений.
The first game was so much wanted to go through, and so much didn’t want it to end, the second part, after a couple of hours, I want it to be finished soon, the plot tied to revenge alone does not lead to anything depressing, licked everyone LGBT, the body is positive, transgender people, even people with disabilities, in general 2 part do not want to go anymore, music 2 parts do not reach 20% of the first, in the first part the music is legendary, 2 - mediocre and dull

I don't know what to say about this game. All it is a political agenda, sjw propaganda. Lets talk about the story, a girl kills this person that is like a "father figure"to you and you try to hunt this person down, and then not only hunt down this person but you kill everyone that was involved with that one person who killed the person who was like a "father figure" to you; then you get to the end of the game and you have the chance to kill her, but then you have a flashback of the person that was killed by the girl who was your "father figure", but because of that flashback you fill that you should let her go because of it (Spoiler) after she BIT OFF TWO OF YOUR FINGERS just secs ago, but no you fill you should let her go, sorry bad writing, terrible story. Nothing is that exciting about the combat and gameplay to me the combat is still the same; nothing else is good accept for the graphics, and that's it. Oh by the way the (spoiler)person who killed her "father figure" you gets to play as her which no one likes.
El juego graficamente y tecnicamente esta bien.. pero hay incoherencias en cuanto a los personajes Joel siempre fue desconfiado.. nunca confio en nadie de repente le tiene toda la confianza a Abby y la sigue practicamente hasta el lugar de su muerte.. Luego quieren hacerte empatizar con Abby de manera forzada siendo ella la asesina de Joel. Hay muchos temas de agenda politica pesados e innecesarios..
Horrible game. The story just ruins everything for me. How can you spend 6 years making a game and you don’t realize that you’re making an awful story. 4 people write this story. 4. What a joke. A 5 year old would have wrote a better story. First, you kill Joel, the most likeable character of TLOU1. Then they make us play with her killer, and not only that but they try to make us sympathize with her. What the hell were they thinking? Like no one cares about her, and her “redemption” story. Abby’s character is poorly written too like the whole game. I’ve never seen a person change her whole mindset in 48 hours. It’s unbelievably poor. Cheap and lazy writing. Then...none of the characters are likeable, not a single one. The only likeable left was Tommy and they didn’t give the importance that he deserved, and then at the end of the story he just disappears like he was no one. The new characters and their sub-stories are really boring and they’re just an excuse to make the game longer. The ending is one of the worst endings I’ve seen in my life. The whole story never makes sense, like Abby and Ellie kill a bunch of people that have nothing to do with them but when they can kill each other to get their “revenges”, all of a sudden they get all pacifist and let each other live. It’s not the story about revenge or what? What kind of **** “revenge” is that? What bothers me the most is people trying to bring deep thoughs or get into the psychology of the characters to justify that the story is good. The story is anything but deep. It’s a plain story that’s been told many times before, but very poorly executed. Go play GTAIV and you will see what a good revenge game is. A story that is not believable within the game's own logic will never be a good story. TLOU2 has a lousy story that is filled with bad decisions and executions. I give a 1 out of 10 to the story. Despite all the love I have for the first game, this one seems like it’s not a sequel at any time and is an insult to the original story.
It's pretty obvious by now that many "gaming news" websites are paid by developers to give them good scores. There is no way that a game like this would ever get a 10 score if those "specialists" were actually being honest. Not only the story was incredibly screwed and unnecessarily prolonged to say the obviousm (perhaps to increase gameplay time), but also the games forces you through a single view seeking you to accept the victimization of a criminal in the game(not gonna add spoilers here, but who played this one knows whom I'm talking about). Besides that the "visceral" violence in the game that some of the (PAID) press is praising is actually done in a way that psychologically screwed up the developers involved. With all that said at least the graphics of the game are good, but that's unfortunately pretty much all the good in this game.
Why did such an endearing character have to end that way? We will never know the answer, but what we do know is that you cannot empathize with a character as disgusting as Abby, someone who does not hesitate to kill by surprise and in a treacherous way, without any honor and with a f....... golf , that’s just ridiculous

Boring, once they killed Joel for shock value the story goes down hill. Also, this have seems like it pushes more of an agenda then just being a classic game. Very disappointed with the story. They could have made the story so much better.
Um dos melhores jogos que eu joguei em toda a minha vida!! Consegue ser brilhante em todos os aspectos,jogabilidade gráficos e história!! Melhoram tudo comparado ao jogo anterior,levou ao limite o ps4 base!! A história vai ser divisiva pra muitas pessoas,principalmente para as que têm mente fechada,e que querem sempre Final feliz!!
It felt like watching game of thrones season 8 and avatar the last air binder movie and it should get the sam treatment, played once and then cut the cd in half.
This game is a huge disappointment, graphics and gamepy is superb, however the story destroys everything, don't buy it !
Gameplay-6/10 disappointed with the lack of improvement from the last game .Ai- 7/10 it is quite dumb sometimes. Story-3/10 no likeable character, bad ending , bad fan service Graphics/ design -8/10 uncharted 4 looks better imo this game have a lack of set pieces .Replay ability- 2/10 game is too long and boring could have been cut shorter and was quite bored towards the end .Overall verdict - everything was done for shock value and the story is just very bad


I sincerely just fail to see what is so bad about this games plot. I wouldn't argue that a lot of the plot depends on very deus ex machina moments, but I think that's true of most video games and films. Every Uncharted game has been absolutely littered with it, yet somehow it's just now become a problem. Either way, I love the plot in it's entirety. I don't really know what anyone else could've cooked up that would have truly been better. The gameplay is great, the graphics are superb, although there are some noticeable framrate dips, mostly in areas with a lot of water. Either way. I don't get it. I never once felt like the story was bad or the game was boring.
Aside from it being politically correct every chance it gets, I thought it was an awesome game. How they sum up the ending and how it affects ellie was superb in my opinion. How you get to play the guitar all game bc Joel taught her how to play, and bc she can't let go of her vengeance she loses two fingers on her left hand. Which means she can't play the one thing that bonds her to Joel so strongly. Killed me.
There wasn't a need for a second part, the first game ended well. The poor development of the story and characters was a letdown for this sequel, such a shame. Don't try to justify this story, is just plain bad in every way.
Props to the actors, they deserved to be in a better game. Don't feel bad, you guys did a great job sadly conducted to a terrible game. I'm just disappointed. This could have been way better even with all the characters involved. But the plot Is missing everything from the last game. Yeah the game looks next gen and the music great, but this story Is just so so bad. Why did they make me play as an antagonist is beyond me. I just glad that's over, I don't want to know anything about Ellie and Abby anymore. Thanks, by the way Dina is bae hehe
Reviewed on a base PS4 and 35 hours to beat the story on moderate without skipping cut scenes, & seeing each encounter through. No leaks were sought ahead of time, though an important one got spoiled. First the obvious, this is an absolute 'technical' masterpiece, better than anything you'll find on a base PS4 let alone a Pro, even RDR2. I was astounded by the visual detail, swearing at how nuts some things are, & this was without the HDR or higher res of a Pro. The animations, the AI, the realism, the way the enemies cry out the names of their fallen friends. If you want a technical showcase, a next gen experience this gen, this game is legit. The level of customisation on this console game rivals even a PC game be it visual things, or accessibility things, really excellent. You can even enable a 'journalism mode', slow-mo aiming, or being invisible when crouched, etc, making it possible to be done with the game in 20 hours, probably. With these things being said, if any game deserved a fair shot, it’s going to be this one isn’t it? All those Naughty Dog developers working overtime, the dreaded crunch culture we hear YouTube videos tell us about. Just all the crap that led up to the launch. It’s a big unfortunate chain of events for everybody, and nobody wins. That said, this review is for the game, not about Naughty Dog's reaction, leakers or people who talk about leakers, so that's all on that. I don’t think this is quite a 10/10 game, but any criticism is aimed at things like its ‘gameplay’ choices, some of its pacing beats, and a few elements in this massive story I didn't gel with. To be clear, I don’t have a problem with the overall story itself, but parts of it were daft. It's epic, it's crazy, it has unexpected turns, it's bound to not all jive for everybody. Some people won't like all of it, others will. Some people will like parts of it, but is the game worth experiencing to decide for yourself? Of course it is. I could empathise with decisions made by a lot of the characters, & equally feel disappointed in them. There's no 'one' villain or hero in all of this, it's a complex story about the circle of violence and it's a broken brutal world. What I had some issue with was some of its pacing. Not that it's a 'long' game, but we do have stretches of walking and talking, interspersed with encounters. It's a hard balance, but at times I felt I was exploring a huge beautiful world & waiting for the next big encounter or thing to happen. If you're going in for a bright father & daughter exploration story who like to go hunting or spending time watching movies, then you're really going to hate this, as it's only some of that. A few other notes while playing: It's a mostly linear Naughty Dog game. That means the game can move you on its path if you trigger it, & not possible to turn back to check over an area you know you didn’t explore yet. This is a little frustrating as can put reliance on chapter restart, etc There's a theme of pregnancy in the game which I thought didn't work, but won't elaborate more because spoilers. I didn’t buy Ellie’s connection with Dina (from the trailers) because not enough back story for me. They didn't seem to have chemistry, or was basically Dina making sex faces at Ellie a lot of the time. I'm not a fan of having to hold the touch pad button to open the map or having to hold any button to do many basic things, opening doors, etc, but that is what it is, and it's a thing in many games. At least there wasn't as much tapping of buttons this time out. I had to restart checkpoint a couple of times from getting stuck in a spot you can’t move from. Which goes to show, as much as you want to delay and polish a game you’ll never make it absolutely 100% full proof, which is understandable. This game is still incredibly polished. I dislike how long it takes to patch yourself up for most of the game (bandages) although the upgrade addresses this of course. The game is a really dark game in spots, though this can be tweaked in visual settings, but it's still pretty dark. Having to keep finger on L1 the whole game whenever you want to run, although didn't heck if there is a toggle to run (there probably is). It’s an interesting dynamic having to collect coins and cards collectibles amidst some atrocities occurring. I found it a little amusing after a point anyway. The combat is excellent, I really enjoyed it, and the AI was mostly great on the balanced moderate setting. I am scared how nuts it would get on survivor difficulty, and will give it a shot at some point. There's a lot to discuss on combat, animations and AI alone, but should be experienced. I'm glad I played the game thoroughly & think a lot of people would be into it from a technical and gameplay standpoint - 8/10.
For a narrative driven game, ND destroyed the things we loved about the first The Last of Us. Turned Ellie to be a shallow shell of the Ellie we all loved in the first game. Made Abby the new Ellie. The flash backs were all a huge mess. None of them placed properly. Games, should keep politics and personal propaganda separate and not force them upon gamers. We waited for The Last of Us 2 for u long years and we recieved something that was not worth the wait.A sequel we never needed or deserved.

While not as bad as people on here are saying, Last of Us 2 doesnt live up to the first game with a few weird story decisions and lack of gameplay upgrades. The gameplay is almost the same as the first game with 1 or 2 minor upgrades to the system but nothing to make it any more then passable. I personally didnt like the gameplay from the first game thinking it was too simple, and this game does nothing to change my mind about that. Secondly, while the story isnt as bad as other people have said on here, its not that great either. Without spoilers its hard to say why but certain characters motivations dont strike me as believable at points, with the most obvious wrinkle happening mid game that almost lost me completely. It feels like the game goes out of its way to bash you over the head with its themes of how "an eye for an eye leaves the whole world blind" over and over again that it losses all meaning in the end. And it certainly cant make up for the most obvious dumb decision that happens in the middle of the game. However, the story still holds up ok at the end of the game. The performances of each individual character is wonderfully done, even if the writing cant equal up to the same calibur. And the graphics here are probably tied in my opinion with Ghosts of Tsushima as being the best on the console, and of this generation in general. However the story needed to be alot less heavy handed and include a lot less bad WTF moments throughout the story. I'd still recommend it but dont expect the same gaming world changing impact that the first game had.
Asco de juego te obligan a "querer" un personaje que desde el principio solo quieres matar se deshace sin son ni gloria de personajes que querías y ya ni del virus se habla por que paso de ser un juego enfocado en un post apocalipsis a ser un capítulo de la rosa de Guadalupe enfocado en los dramas y traumas de un montón de personajes de los que ni deseas saber cuál fue su cochina vida.

"THE LAST OF US PART II" is one of the games I am looking forward to most in this year. Today, I fully experience and pass the game with the difficulty of survivors. The following is the detailed. Naughty dog once again shows us the best audio-visual experience of PS4 in this generation with the top production level in the industry. This is the largest and most ambitious work developed by the production team so far. The excellent art in the game greatly masks the shortcomings of PS4 in terms of PS4's capabilities. In the aspect of combat experience, the move of dodging and crawling is added in this work, which greatly improves the game experience in the process of fighting and stealth. The more intelligent AI makes the enemy very difficult to deal with. The enemy will carry out a careful search according to the player's position. The team with clear division of labor will be responsible for command and encirclement. When the enemy is facing death, there will be crying or even begging for mercy , and your enemies will be disgusted with you. Such a rich detailed description is exactly what the production team wants to bring more real performance to the players. In the aspect of level design, the game surpasses the previous generation and reaches a new level. Players need to use environmental resources reasonably and judge the venue correctly, which is more prominent especially under high difficulty.the excellent audio-visual experience and excellent performance make the whole level battle full of thrill and excitement. This work also has excellent performance in auxiliary function, which is especially reflected in the design of barrier free function. Perfect barrier free design can enable the disabled to participate in the experience game. About characters and narratives: The whole game is divided into three parts. After the prologue, there will be Allie, Abby and the last chapter. In the characterization, the roles of Allie are not as profound as those of Abby. For example, Jesse and Allie lack more meaningful dialogues, and Jesse is more like a forced patchwork of existence, which is more obvious after I finished the part of Abby. In the game experience, we can also clearly find that the Abby is more important than Ellie.it is not difficult to find out that the center of the game is Abby not Ellie. The description of Abby has not reached a better level, and she is also the most important character in the whole game. At the end of the game, Naughty dog tries to telling us what is the vortex of hatred and the redemption of life, but it creates a slightly regretful performance directly, so the characterization of Ellie is greatly reduced. The writing direction of this script is quite different from our expectation, but please don't forget that it still has many outstanding points. That is the all comments on "THE LAST OF US PART II". The script can't satisfy everyone, and the experience of the game varies from person to person. I have made a relatively objective review on this as far as possible. Of course, this only represents my personal opinion. If there are different opinions, please keep them and understand it.
Beyond all the drama surrounding the game, there is plenty to love about it, technicaly, it's the best looking game out there in the moment, absolutely beautiful. Story-wise we see once again the writing must have consistency, on a possible sequel or continuation of a story. In TLOU II, the characters we once knew very well in the first game, are totally different people on the sequel, without much effort to explain why. And the whole vengence ark falls flat with a bad ending.
Gran jugabilidad, buenos graficos lo unico malo es lo fastidioso de la historia Joel el primer protagonista tuvo una muerte decepcionante, llegamos al punto de matar perros, gente inocente en busca de la venganza sólo para dejar a abby viva Ellie paso de ser una niña tierna y aveces irritante a solo ser una lesbiana loca que no piensa en los demas
The critics were only allowed to review the gameplay and not the story which made the scores biased, and you can see the difference from the user reviews which consider both. As for the gameplay, this game is phenomenal. I loved it and would give it a 9.0 or 9.5. there's still a few things that could've been improved. However, as for the story component, there's much better ways the story could've been told to get the same outcome and message across. I would give it a 6.0. Considering both, it's worth playing and I would give it between a 7.5-8.0.
Gameplay-wise, it is very similar to the original game, nothing was really added except the "jump" control which is fairly useless in my opinion. Aiming and shooting are OK but not that great and the stealth mechanics are getting repetitive for a 30 hour game. Very restrictive and kind of boring, the gameplay feels a bit outdated. I expected more exploration opportunities, a wider world and some "open world elements". The graphics are top notch. Detailed, atmospheric and at some parts they look like next-gen. Visually the game is excellent. Nothing more to add here. The story is very bad in my opinion. It is almost as if the creator of this game made wrote this plot (and dialogues) to piss of the fans and only cared about promoting himself (more than one self inserts) and advertise his views, in order to attract attention. He is rumored to be pursuing a TV career and maybe that would explain a lot.
As someone who actually played the game, didn't fully make up his mind based solely on the leaks, someone open-minded and who can formulate an opinion without just copy-pasting what my favorite youtubers/reviewers said, to give this game anything less than a 4 or 5 is completely irrational and biased. Gameplay - It's a greatly expanded version of what we saw in the first game. Animations are a lot smoother, enemy and companion AI is much better, the damage you can do together with the sound design make for a really grueling yet amazing experience. Graphics - Definitely amongst the best we will ever see this generation, it's crazy how they were able to make such a beautiful and detailed game run so well in a console that came out 7 years ago. Atmosphere/World building - Each and every area is full of details, full of "life" and have interesting documents that tell small stories that are always interconnected with the main plot, be it to give you some extra context or small stories of what happened in that specific area which sometimes go hand in hand with the puzzles & safes. Sound Design/Soundtrack - It's just perfect. The work done on everything sound related in this game, be it from Gustavo Santaolalla or the amazing sound engineers/devs is astonishingly amazing. Story - I think it fulfilled its purpose. It has a lot of structural and pacing issues but I didn't find it as bad as people are making it out to be. For them to surpass the emotional value and quality of its prequel, it would mean making a literal 100% perfect masterpiece which would be almost impossible and I find it brave that even with all of that, they decided to do what they wanted to do with its story even if it would mean making something as divisive as it is.
Good graphics and sound but terrible terrible story/plot development, the writers should be fired, such a terrible game, it's a shame that naughty dog could've ruined such a hyped game with such dumb writing, it's like first out of uni writers... what a joke honestly.

It’s one of the most beautiful looking games this generation. The story is divisive and not everyone will like it. Personally I loved the story. It portrays that revenge won’t give u anything. I am pretty sure most of the people who added a rating here didn’t even play the game and saw some plot twists which is sad. Just want to say it out. Naught dog has created one of the best games of this generation and I really appreciate how they gave close attention to every single thing. 10/10 for me!
This game is a glorified movie. No decisions are made by the gamer. We're just forced to sit through the ridiculous fantasy made by Neil Druckman, that's riddled with so many plot holes that world hunger could be solved, with Swiss freaking cheese!
História ruim. Um jogo que custa mais de 200 reais, toma horas da sua vida, para no fim, tentar passar uma lição de bom senso, que já foi vista em inúmeros filmes, séries, jogos, animes, ou programas. Até na série Chaves, com o personagem Seu Madruga, que passa essa lição para as pessoas. De revolucionário o jogo tem apenas os gráficos, todos os outros méritos podem ficar para o primeiro, ou outros jogos por aí.
I don't do reviews often, but I am really quite upset about this game. Even at it's best, the game is mediocre. The clunky mechanics and poor story telling weren't enough to dissuade me from playing through the game though. But after getting about halfway through, I had completely lost interest altogether. I truly feel like they spit in the face of their fans with this lousy excuse of a game. Who makes a hit and then **** on it for the sequel? Well, apparently naughtydog does.
The last of us 2 was an amazing game visually. It’s an amazing game at creating suspense and anxiety. When talking about it I’ve always said it’s not really that fun, but very engaging and stressful which Is fun to some people like myself. The problem for me with the last of us 2, was that it never really made me happy, which is the main reason I play story games. Games like Rdr2, Gow, or the original tlou made me very attached to the characters. In all of those games there are iconic and great moments that makes me feel like those characters feel. Real emotions. In tlou2, the only time I was happy was during the flashbacks with Joel. I could truly care less about abby. Seeing Joel alive was really the only thing. I really like Tommy as well and wish he was in the story more than he is. I can’t find myself to relate with almost any of the characters. As for Joel’s death, I hated it. I was very angry, and I think that’s what they wanted for sure. But Joel didn’t deserve to go out like that. He should’ve gone out defending Ellie from abby or something. Something like Arthur Morgan giving his life to save john marston. If you are really going to kill off a beloved character you have to do it in a good way. The beginning of the game is literally 2 lesbians smoking pot, and then killing Joel. I don’t think most of the people who bought the game care. As for a lot of people complaining about sjw stuff, yes it is in the game. It was annoying to me, but I’m more indifferent than anything. If it was a straight scene I could care less as well. I just want to play a fun and engaging game. Because of these factors like not relating to characters, just wishing the story was completely different, not really being happy at all while playing the game, I can’t rate it very high. This game was fantastic if you don’t care about story. But it’s a linear game (for the most part) and story is what matters. For me it’s a 6.5 out of 10. But I’m still mad about Joel’s death so I’m rounding it down.


One of the worst games I have ever played! If I had the option to go back in time and stop myself from ever purchasing the game I would do so in a heartbeat! $60 down the drain!
There's not much I can write here that hasn't already been said either here or elsewhere by someone else. Many people have made countless videos on YouTube detailing why this game is so problematic and divisive, but my biggest pet peeve with it lies in its blatant & unapologetic destruction of beloved characters, poor writing, questionable plot elements, bland characters & ultimately the preachy attitude and virtue signaling that is echoed in every single line of dialogue. It is really hard for me to fathom what went wrong in development, but this game is so inferior to the first one in the series that it's almost impossible to believe it was handled by the same studio. The only good thing that has carried over to Part II is the graphics. The game is visually stunning, and there are so many gorgeous views to be found in this game, indeed. So, huge kudos to whatever part of Naughty Dog's team handled the visual elements & art direction because they did a brilliant job, and it is the only thing I genuinely enjoyed. Is that enough to propel the score beyond 4 out of 10 though? I'm afraid not. At least not for me, a player that puts story & characters above everything else. I don't need photo-realistic graphics to save the game if the story and characters are well-written and fun to experience. This is why The Last of Us 1 will be played & remembered decades from now, while this game will be forgotten. All video games eventually become outdated in some way, but interesting (not necessarily likable) characters, good plot & fun gameplay continue to captivate players of different generations. The world still plays Half-Life 1 & 2, Bioshock (2007), Resident Evil (1-4) or pre-reboot Tomb Raider games -- because these games have stood the test of time. The Last of Us Part II is not timeless, it is a sad reflection of the time during which it was produced: the age of political correctness, SJW wokeness, and a time when feminism is used as a tool of oppression & censorship. I am a gay male by the way, and while I fully welcome the fact this game features same sex romance & homosexual characters -- I do not like the way the characters were handled -- In fact, it is hard to find any other defining characteristics of the main characters besides the fact they're gay which is exactly what you want to avoid as a writer/storyteller. Then there's the sexual aspect of those characters which is featured so prominently (sex scenes that contribute NOTHING worthwhile to the overall plot!!) just for the sake of controversy and generating support from the LGBTQ+ community, I presume. Ultimately, The Last of Us Part II is a shallow and empty experience that will go down in history as one of the most disappointing video game sequels of all time.

Tremendos gráficos, las mejores animaciones de la generación, gameplay muy pulido, gran doblaje, buen soundtrack, historia emotiva con momentos memorables, acción, suspenso. Un juego redondo.
This game is amazing. The story is touching but extremely sad. Great character development. I just finished it and am rating it 10/10 as it truly is a masterfully executed story telling piece of art. As for the so many 0 scores, I believe some people were upset by an event early on in the story, and others simply came to hate on it for featuring LGBTQ characters. Which is honestly pathetic. Actually there are so many scores by folk who just wanted to hate on the game because of this. Hate and prejudice never sleeps apparently... But if you are thinking of whether you should give the game a shot - go ahead. You'll not be disappointed.

Pretentious story telling ruined a good gameplay and amazing visuals, that's the reason I only give it 1 point. Took me more than a month to complete do to not liking the game; repetitive, one dimensional & forced story, complete garbage, avoid it at all cost, you'll lose some money and time with this "game" in my opinion :(
Personally, I consider this game a masterpiece after having played through it twice. It's not a feel-good game; it's supposed to make you profoundly uncomfortable. ND didn't warp its story to placate fans of the last game. It's also the most impressive technical achievement on PS4, and its gameplay is really engaging. The stealth is great, the AI is some of the best I've seen, and the gunplay/melee combat feels weighty and realistic. It feels like a cross between Metal Gear Solid and Resident Evil. The backlash to this game is sad to watch, but hate is to be expected for any piece of art that's ahead of its time.
Funny how many 0/10 reviews for this got posted withing 12 hours of it coming out, when it takes at least 20 hours to finish, longer if you're actually exploring and playing as intended... I will start by saying I can understand how this game isn't everyone's cup of tea. The world and stories that take place it in are unrelentingly dire. It's about the best and worst of humanity showing through under the most traumatic circumstances imaginable. That said, I don't know how anyone could say that this game isn't a solid product. Well, OK, I guess if you feel like a character being Jewish, or Gay, or Trans, or you know... a Woman, is "rubbing" an agenda in your face, I suppose you'll hate this. I personally like that they made none of those above traits the defining trait of any of the characters, they're people who happen to be one of the above, among many other well rounded things. Mechanically, I found playing the game a lot better than the first one. The reworks to character movement and stealth are a huge step forward without feeling like they were trying to reinvent the wheel. This also allowed for much more open and inventive level design, thanks to more mobile characters and more varied AI behaviors. The fact that the game feels similar, but not the same to the first one is a plus. Narratively, the story is a lot darker than the first iteration. It can be a slog at times. I was glad when it was over because I wasn't sure how much more I could take. But at the same time, I couldn't put it down until I reached the end. I played my first play through in about 25 hours, exploring liberally, and completed it in 2 days. Does it live up to the previous iteration? It's hard to say. I will say that it felt True. This is not a world of rosey outlooks and happy endings. The consequences of the previous game are significant, and though I was upset by what happened, I never felt like the events of the game didn't follow a natural progression of cause and effect. Ultimately, the ending felt satisfying, if melancholy, which frankly isn't that different from what I felt at the end of the first game. That said, The Last of Us was one of the greatest stories ever told in video gaming, so if Part II only reaches 90% of that level for you, it's still pretty good. The graphics and sound design are exceptional, the game is mechanically sound, and the narrative is well crafted. How anyone could give this game a 0/10... I dunno. As I write this, the game is out 2 days and it's 9420 - Green, 932 - Yellow, 22014 - Red reviews. I suppose, like the world this game depicts, the majority of people, free from the constraints of society, choose to be belligerent **** For my part, I first reviewed this as an 8/10 but every day I come back and I knock it down a point. It's a solid 6.5 in my book. A masterpiece of craft and storytelling that I really did not enjoy even a little bit. Days latter I'm still thinking about the ending and feeling bad about everything that came before.
The game has incredible graphics, very good gameplay, soundtrack is great. Now the story is very bad, the game has several unnecessary cutscene that only makes the game long, boring. Abby did deserve to have her reasons revealed, but why play the whole game with her? And the ending is disappointing, the whole story of Ellie is thrown in the trash at the end. The Last Of Us part. 2 is disappointing.
Technically perfect. Best third person combat gameplay. Incredible story, Ellie and Abby being transformed by revenge and losses, it was incredible. A masterpiece.
Could’ve been more so much more. It was so lackluster compared to the first one. No emotional ties to anyone. I actually think every character irritated me at least twice in this game. Disappointed
I loved this game. I would rate this game a 10, a 10 does not mean a perfect game. When the credits rolled, I clapped, but then stopped because I realized it was stupid (lol). Then i went to the internet, and It was so overwhelmingly negative, I was questioning If we just played the same game. But it's all a matter of perspective. How I feel/think/interpret is completely different from others. I'm still trying to learn to be ok with the hate this game gets, but to me it's become one of my favorite game of all time. Pros: + Overall gameplay - vastly improved over the original, feels clunky at first.. but you quickly adjust to it. + Graphics/ atmosphere/ sound/level design - a technical masterpiece. + Enemy A.I - One of the best and most dynamic enemies I've ever played against. + Ellie/ Abbie - both were interesting/ had interesting campaigns. Both were dynamic and unpredictable. + Overall story - It was good, without spoiling anything.. one of the most memorable endings. + Overall journey- A rollercoaster, that can't be explained unless you get on it. I laughed, almost cried, felt happy, genuinely smiled, felt scared, etc. So-So: * some side characters were under developed and felt unconsequential * They really did Joel dirty here. how it happened (the actual act). I'm ok with why it happened. Cons: - No multiplayer ( they stated no mp, but it's still my favorite mp).. will wait patiently for factions 2. - A few pacing issues ( This game had just as much pacing issues as the first game, but this game is also 10 hours longer). I think there were only 4 sections of the game I dreaded. - Very sad game. To end, no game has me feel so many ranges of emotions in 30 hours. I loved it. The gameplay is dynamic, and always throws something new at you, it never feels stale. The story makes you feel for both sides, and it worked for me by the end. I didn't want ellie to kill abby, even though I cared less about abby even half way through her campaign. It just wasn't worth it in the end. Abby and lev also reminded me of joel and ellie. Basically I empathized with both ellie and abby. ND let us beat the **** out of abby in the end, I was satisfied, and would've been even if I didn't get to. I can honestly say this will be a divisive game, a lot of people will hate it.. but I can confidently defend this game because of MY experience. Masterpiece. Oh yeah, I guess not being bias towards LBGT, not knowing who anita sarkeshian is, or caring about political agendas probably helped me enjoyed this game more.
Giving it a 4, the game play was great, the graphics were great and flash backs you get to play in were just like the first TLOU. Tho False Advertisement of Joel being with us in the main story and the disappointing story/ending. All that and forcing us to play as the character that killed Joel for 60% of the game..... Sooo much more I can say but yeah TLOU 2 I wouldn’t recommend.

I am a little late at this point but I want to air my view since I cannot contain my frustration and disappointment at this point. I just got done with this game and I am left with a complete and utter feeling of disgust and a hole being shot in my gut. Before I descend into my rant, I just want to commend what went right: The Graphics, The Game Mechanics and the Voice Acting. Now... The story telling and writing is in shambles. Most of the supporting characters are shallow and cringe which makes these inter-personal relationships seem superficial in that they only serve to make the cogs of the story work just for convenience sake. This game tries so hard to be a set apart from the first, that it completely breaks itself. If TLOU2 was a completely stand alone game with no ties to the prequel it still falls flat in that it betrays the player by making Abby the antagonist become utterly and completely hated within the first 2 hours of game play. So everyone is now on board with Ellie's revenge drive, great! Lines are drawn: Ellie = Good and Abby = Bad You play your way through and are fed this revenge plot and battle your way through various traumatic events and come to a climax. But instead of exacting your well deserves revenge you are then FORCED to play Ellie's antagonist and empathise with your enemy, which completely railroads you into developing a hate/but I have to play through this relationship with Abby. You are betrayed for placing all your empathy and feelings with Ellie when you play as Abby. At this point no sane and sound of mind person would feel comfortable with this change up. Moving on... You start to develop feelings through your game play with Abby for her situation and start to understand why she did what she did. ***Great I get you Abby! Let me play as Ellie now*** Unfortunately, the worst part of the betrayal is that you are FORCED again to fight Ellie, which is uncomfortable and you don't really want to do it. Which sane person would feel comfortable and want to actually have a hand in destruction of the protagonist and be okay with it? Going forward... The ending... I don't get the thought process in the decisions made, they are uncharacteristic and are completely unsupported. Why did Ellie let Abby go when she flashed back to Joel? - Did she think Joel wouldn't want her to do it? - She literally gave up her family to keep the promise to Tommy and to ease her own mind (part of the explanation she gave Dina), so why stop? - She had nothing left to lose except to get her long awaited revenge. - It certainly couldn't be that she didn't want to take a life because she has a laundry list of people she's already take out in her path for revenge. It makes no sense in Ellie's perspective, the decision is uncharacteristic. But if you think about it this way: ** The creator now has 2 loved characters ** You as the player, as much as you don't want to admit it, have mixed feelings for both characters in the end and you might second guess yourself when you try to choose between them. ** It isn't like Ellie knows what Abby has been through..... BUT you as the player do know! Which, however you phrase it, places you in a position where you start second guessing who you're going to root for. ** So the decision was made for you by the creator, a shallow flashback was the reason to stop Ellie ending Abby. ** So it's not your decision ** They creator spared both his characters ** You are then left with no resolution and feeling frustrated ** You were railroaded and none of the things you did in the game actually mattered ** Lead through an emotionally charged story with no resolution But the game sure is pretty though.
Best game of the PS4 graphically speaking. Naughty Dog knows how to take advantage of the PS consoles to the max, and The Last of Us II is the irrefutable proof. Beautiful settings, amazing storytelling, character development is well worked. Combat feels super realistic, when taking a shot or an arrow, you really feel the impact and can’t rush the shooter like most games or you’ll be downed in a second. I also enjoyed the brutality of combat and the presence of gore (you can blow an enemy head and leg with a shotgun) , I think it adds more to the ambience of the game.
En mi opinión el juego está muy trabajado, pero la historia no está mal pudo ser mejor pero aspectos como el marketing del juego que yo lo veo así u otras cosas son las que le bajan al juego pero para mí son mínimas y no lo veo tan mal.
This game spits in the face of its fan instead opting to pander to companies or something. As a game it's not broken it's bug free for the most part and doesn't have major frame rate drops. The story is awful I won't go into details but you will be disappointed even if you've never played the last of us, it's stretched out full of plot holes and does nothing to draw you into any of the characters or the very limp plot. Gameplay is basic hide and shoot area after area broken up with quick time events. Overall very disappointing as I loved the first last of us, it didn't have great gameplay but it's story was amazing. Please don't buy this game it's best to ignore it exists and go back and play the original game. Lowered the score to 1/10 because after 45 attempts to upload this review i gave up and had to do another 20 attempts 8 hours later.
صراحه العبه رائع لكن النقاط السيء فيها هي ضعف شخصية ايلي و جول نوع ما و الاشياء المثليه ام الباقي ممتع جدا من ناحيه العب و المراحل ترتيب القصة
The biggest attraction of the game was the fraternal love that developed between Joel and Ellie throughout the entire game until the end, that's why everyone liked it, and they repeated the game (I repeated the game 7 times) The worst decision was to kill Joel at the start of the game, and replace the fraternal love that developed in the first game with love crap at first sight lol. We ALL bought the game from Joel and Ellie. We expect dramatic scenes between Joel and Ellie and the brilliant idea was to kill him after 40min of gameplay. The story of TLOU 2 is a total rubbish which I am sure NO ONE will play the game 2 times, for the simple reason that the story is not enjoyable ... in the first game the vast majority played the campaign several times .. I doubt very much that anyone wants to play it a second time. Another point, all the other characters could have been dismembered or burned alive and we wouldn't have minded ... BECAUSE THERE WAS NO DEVELOPED ATTACHMENT. The only attachment we had was the Joel - Ellie relationship (who was even having a hard time, and they could have worked from there). They really should fire those who had the stupid idea to eliminate fraternal love and incorporate love without any attachment from users, I don't think they can work on a TLOU 3. Ah, good job taking Ellie's fingers off her so she could never play the guitar again, the only thing Joel left her. it's a **** game of the year 2020, that is, ALL the games of this era can be scored 10/10 in graphs and gameplay easily, what really makes the difference is a good use of resources in terms of characters, story, narrative, dialogues, etc. 1. They forced the use of a character with whom we had no developed attachment. (IT WAS OBVIOUS THAT THE RESULT WOULD NOT BE GOOD.)2. We were tricked with the trailers, thinking Joel would be an accompanying character (Joel).3. The worst use of resources I have seen in years, should be ashamed to do this rubbish in so many years...Joel's death mismanaged, if only killed mid-game or given a "dignified" death and in the process "develop" attachment to Abby.For example: Playing with Ellie and Joel as Abby searches for Joel (and that way we are presented to Abby in a different way, ASI develops character attachment). But NOOOO Hahaha we'll have Abby kill one of the game's biggest resources at the first hour of play and then force you to play with Abby for 7 hours...that can go wrong?



I was a huge fan of The Last Of Us, so obviously I was excited for this sequel. But ever since the introduction of Abby and her friends, it felt strange, but Joel's death is what really ruined my experience. This game had so much potential to being the greatest game ever, but Naughty Dog just had to kill off my favorite character in all of Naughty Dog. The Graphics is obviously great, soundtrack is beautifully done well, gameplay is phenomenal, and upgrading weapons has never felt so much satisfying, but what really killed this game is the story.
Graphics 10/10 Gameplay 8/10 Story 5/10 Pacing 2/10 you are as strong as your weakest link, so I'll be giving it a 2. the game made me lose interest in the upcoming series about Last of Us as well as my faith in the critics who reviewed the game...
Overall this is another fantastic game by naughty dog. I do agree that the second part is not nearly as good as the first, and some of the story elements feel very forced to fit a very obvious narrative. The writing isn't anywhere as good as the first game, and today's political environment is interjected into the game without much thought on how it could impact the tone of the game. Unfortunately, I think we will be seeing more of this in the next generation of gaming. No one wants the author's politics obviously interjected into a game. However, all that's being said... I still enjoyed the game start to finish. It didn't have the same overall impact on me as the first, but that was always going to a hard feat to accomplish.
Graphics 8/10 pretty decent tbh Gameplay 7/10 the jump button is a joke, nothing new or inovative Story 1/10 it exists 5/10 -1 for killing off one and treatment of the main characters from the first game -1 for striking youtubers and social media users. -1 false advertising in the trailers. -1 for terrible ending, and no player choices -1 for Abby and the forced introduction, terribly written and inability to sympathize with -5= 0/10

Игра - абсолютный шедевр! Разработчики молодцы. История, графика, боевка реализованы очень круто. Для игра как глубокая интересная книг. ЛГБТ совсем не мешает. Круто!
TLOU2 - это переоцененная игра, сюжет в ней уныл, в игре есть повестка, а для меня это оскорбительно. Журналисты идиоты.
This game is not a 0/10 and sure as hell, not a 10/10. It falls in the middle. The visuals are amazing, probably one of the best looking games ever, Seattle looks amazing with the amount of flora and overgrowth, the world is filled with tiny details that make it feel lived in and alive, despite almost all humans being gone. As good as the visuals are this is a game, where gameplay is king, the gameplay is fine, it's effectively a copy+paste of the controls of the first game which isn't bad but it does have the same clunky feeling from the first title which can hinder gameplay but all in all it's not bad. The gameplay is also interrupted time and time agin by QTE's (quick time events) that don't need to be there, cutscenes in which you have to mash square or hold triangle happen WAY too often making me bored during some parts, it feels like an interactive movie or a walking sim for almost half the game. AI feels like a step down from the first game, they will constantly see you kill their allies and not do anything, and AI partners like Dina just got in the way and didn't really add anything; AI will almost always be seen by enemies and sometimes enemy AI will do nothing, other times they'll detect you and open fire even though you were completely hidden. New additions like prone are very welcome as it allows for a lot of flexibility in combat, the jump, on the other hand, feels almost useless even though it's used throughout the entire game for subpar platforming. The story is where TLOU2 truly falls apart, it begins with an idiotic way to kill off a beloved character, as Angry Joe beautifully said "we don't care that you kill Joel, we care HOW you do it," and it's never been more true. Characters we know make decisions completely out of character, so much that I disliked Ellie by the end of the game. Abby and the WLF are such bad people its difficult to sympathize with any of them, literally every big conflict is started by the WLF, which is sad because Abby's half of the game is easily the best. The set pieces, characters, weapons, abilities, are all so much better than Ellie's, it actually feels more similar to the first game because of the Abby and Lev's relationship and some of the puzzle mechanics. This is a revenge story in which you kill nearly hundreds of people, but not the one person that matters, makes absolutely no sense. The pacing is bad too, constantly taking us out of the moment going through flashbacks, they're fine but as a cohesive unit the story falls flat, I firmly believe if they edited/moved scenes around, the story and game would flow much better. Especially because by the time we get to Abby's 3 days in Seattle, I didn't give a **** about the supporting characters because they're all dead anyway. If it was just Abby's adventures with the SCARS this would be a MUCH better game, Ellie and Joel's additions actually hurt the story. If this was a standalone game within the LOU universe minus Joel and Ellie I'd give a 8.5/10, but its a sequel to one of the most beloved games of all time and does NOT respect it or its characters. Overall I give it a 6/10 but due to the false advertising by NaughtyDog and Sony (Joel's character model switched in the trailers to give the illusion he would play a much bigger role other than plot convenience), I deduct another point.
Game-play: mediocre Story: crap Graphics: normal Ending: top 10 worst endings The game was made just to support the LGBT community and was not made as a sequel to the first game


This game is a disappointment. It took them 7 years to release this and the game is still filled with glitches. The story is so poor that thousands of people want a remake. It shows how lazy the devs are and it shows that they no longer care about the franchise. Playing through the whole game i was just thinking about how much of a mess everything is. Naughty dog let a lot of people down with this game as the first game was so good.
A very powerful game that amazes in every way. It is a technical marvel for PS4 and the gameplay is stellar. It keeps things interesting for a long time. Though there were times where the story which lies at the core of the game seemed to progress almost too slowly with all of the travel from point A to point B. The story is rich with deep themes of love and revenge. Truly it is a story about how we cope with our imperfect humanity. Deep life lessons were told in this story that if not pondered will make the story look like a mess. But looking at character actions and what drives them to do what they do can sometimes you to think about how much you too may feel the same. I loved almost everything about this game.
The story made no sense. The characters are plastic, and scenes forced and lazy. lgbt propaganda. ending is just plain bad. I dont recommend, save yourself 60$.
I am already playing it, and it was not as ambitious a game as they were commenting, those of naughty dog, I have noticed many bugs, a very serious downgrade, and I see that it has the same graphic engine as the first one. Abby's character seems like a robot, what an ugly character, I am playing as fast as possible to be able to kill her in the bloodiest way, because heck how horrible is, I have also noticed some lows of incredible frames, and even so the notes gave it a 96 and almost 100 in all really?, this smells like you paid journalists very well, that game becomes monotonous and continuous in graphics and things to do, the ps4 pro can not over there I suppose I think that in the next generation the graphic change will be noticed a little more and the game will be more fluid in terms of frames. But the story was shattered by the argument of leading Joel into an ambush so easily, such a careful guy, and who didn't help other people, is so stupid. well this game in my opinion is overrated, the score it should have had was a maximum of 70,For people who are used to playing good games, and who have good stories and good graphics, this does not surprise us, it is not innovative and leaves a lot to be desired, rather it seems that the first one is better composed in everything, because even in graphics making comparisons are better in the flashbacks of the moment that joel kills the doctor and runs away with ellie. This game was left to several Junior developers posing as seniors and they destroyed the story as well as the design of the characters that they did not like everyone,overrated score, that game is a 70.
Everything is ok about tlou2....until you reach the golf training section of the game.
I waited until I finished the game to write this. Ignoring all the negative reviews. Upon completion, I was thoroughly disappointed with the experience and left with the thought of "THIS took you guys 7 years?..wtf..." *Spoiler warning* -The gameplay is the same as the original, which I find somewhat clunky. -Characters are awfully shallow. -The story has no purpose besides "revenge is bad" and ultimately feels pointless. -They had a heavy SJW agenda with this one... I'm all for treating people equally, but Jesus Christ guys I can't even tell if Lev has a gender because of the way you sloppily allude to it! -Too much romantic drama that feels forced. -Shambler death animations are cringy and weird. (here let me grab you and stare as you die) -A ton of plot holes; the whole story wouldn't be possible if Abby didn't have God-tier luck... -the best storytelling is in the scenes with Joel and Ellie and they are few and far between. They tried the Red Dead method and failed miserably. Why? because they make you play half the game as a character that kills someone you came to know and love. Once that point in the game hit, I didn't even want to play it anymore. As Ellie, I would explore, scavenge up and down, go for 100% completion. Once I got into Abby's shoes, I just wanted the game to be over. The best part of playing as Abby is seeing all the different death scenes. This was the first game I pre-ordered and got the special edition of in over 5 years. (facepalm) They effectively tarnished the reputation of The Last Of Us with this installment. If you played the first one, save yourself the heartbreak.

mi critica va dirigida a lo mas polémico del juego así que ya todos saben que es insufrible y increíblemente detestable lo que paso en la historia, y el motivo por el que le pongo una nota tan baja es porque sencillamente no me motivo para jugar y hay que separar el gameplay de la historia solo así puedo aguantar una hora jugando , les juro pase ratos en los que quería que se acabara el juego de una vez y solo se alargaba y se alargaba para al final terminar en lo mas bajo de interés, este juego esta diseñado para que no quieras saber nada mas de este mundo ficticio cuando se pone la pantalla en negro y sale el logo de naughty dog.
O jogo é emocionante! Uma mistura perfeita de amor e odio em uma caçada perigosa que te envolverá em uma Aventura nunca vista. Entendo que muitos pensaram que o jogo não merece o hype que ta tendo, mas aconselho todos a jogarem pensando fora da zona de conforto.
A short comment: This is the best way to ruin a game that became one of the best of its time, I find it hard to believe that "The Last of Us" has died in such an absurd way as this...
I waited for this game for 7 **** years. Two hours into the game joel **** dies and we had to play half the game with his killer. After 30 hours of waiting to kill abby we dont even get revenge. Do not compare this garbage with the first masterpiece

A game of change from the first alarm. Some people say change for the better, while others say change for the worse. A modern face. Change for the better. The game is strong from an inventory of graphics, method of playing, strong story and strong events.
Пока что неоспоримый номинант, на звание "разочарование года". Настоятельно не рекомендую
Neil druckman destruyó un juego hermoso el verdadero artífice al parecer fue el otro director creo que se llama Bruce straley , lamentablemente el juego ya está hecho espero que después de esto los usuarios no compren nada que naugthy dog desarrolle a partir de ahora, no compren nada de naugthy dog No Nmmmmmmnńnndjdhjdjdjjdkdkkdkkkskwjwjsbdbbfbjdfiidifkfkfkkfnfnnfn


What a horrible game... their first game was a masterpiece but once again a dev decides to push their politic agenda in people's throat and put all this sjw crap in their game. Did they honestly think this political uninspired garbage is what people want? If you like this crap you're or easily pleased an sjw/retard yourself or you didn't play a decent game in your whole life. Just like all those critics praising every game crap or no crap, they proved it right here how they haven't any feeling for gaming anymore. It's really sad how more and more critics and devs are taking the sjw road, there should be no place for politics in games! And if this is how the future of gaming looks like i quit. Well at least tlou2 has beautiful graphics and scenery's but that's about it for pros... Luckily i experienced the golden years of gaming from the SEGA to N64 all the way to the ps3, one masterpiece after another. sadly kids will never understand and only know this crap.. poor them.
The original game The Last of us was a really great game the perfect balance between everything in a game that game really touched the hearts of many people.They fell them self in game they would do the Same what Joel did to save Ellie that made the game phenomenal. But What Naughty dog did with Last of us Part ll is just horrible they just destroy the whole franchise they get rid of every thing form the first game and just make it a nightmare to play every time I think to play the Joel scene hunts me I that I can't kill that **** which would give me same relief or release the depression for the **** game But the game sucks If it will solo game for Abby it Will be a great game but including the last of us character they us destroy the game the false advertising and marketing stuff made us thinking the game would be great but it was miss leading I really hope naughty dog understand their mistake stop doing the practice.I really hope they not launch the Part 3 because their nothing left for it. They should really give an option in the end so we can kill abby.To satisfy yourself.But the mess up . Really hate the game don't buy if you want to stay away from depression that this game bring to me.
Zero Stars! Killed of Joel ? Total bs. Go play better games like horizon zero dawn, Spider-Man, god of war and ghost of Tsushima

Literal masterpiece and best game if ever played. Anyone who says it’s trash is just salty that Joel died or that they had to play as a lesbian. Deeply emotional and complex storyline, and superb acting that makes most movies seem like a joke. The gameplay is smooth as silk and combat is fun.
-3 point for a long story, I know the director wants to tell the story from both sides but still too long and boring -1 point for Ellie and Abby has almost the same gameplay
Naughty Dog probably made one of the most controversial decisions in their writing process I have ever witnessed from any game developer. Not favorable amongst the masses who seem to forget that we don't live in a perfect world. Naughty Dog wanted to do something different. The story (most) people wish they would have told is too predictable. People need to go into this game with an open mind. It is not a game you can truly take someone else's opinion on. It's a must see for yourself experience.
The normal majority of people will have a hard time connecting or feeling anything for these forced characters and naritive. Makes me sad naughtydog had to go so far off a cliff. looks good though.

the story is garbage doesn't make any sense . killing off joel for plot and wasting such a good character . making ellie look like the bad guy playing as abby for the half of the game . after killing joel and jesse . making the story of the game just spits on the first tlou and that game is my 4th fave game ever . what can i say don't waste youre money on this crap game . i rather buy the first game 3 times than this crap game
A sad disappointment, if you liked Last of Us 1 you'll hate this political-cultural revolution sequel that provides nothing but anti story anti character anti-father garbage social propaganda. This is not a fun game this is not entertainment, this is horrible garbage. Save yourself the money.
Usual gameplay. Bad story. This series is built on 90% story. Disappointing, pointless journey at the end of it all.
Story was messy. Flashback within flashbacks. 11 hr cliffhangers that made getting through almost half the game a chore to play through. Inconsistent motivation & motives of characters. Besides like one boss, the infected felt like a random nuisance instead of the threat they were in the first game.
Awful story, characters make stupid decisions. Agenda pushing over actual quality story telling. Visual stunning game, such a shame it has been ruined.
The game is a masterpiece of what video games can be. The gameplay is addictive and intuitive that immerses you throughout the entire game. The quality is by far the highest I have ever experienced in a game. Now the big one — story. I have never thought of Naughty Dogs games as an achievement in writing. The Uncharted games and even the first Last of Us has never done anything ground breaking in telling a story. The love the first game gets confused me because it was a solid story but it didn’t do anything exceptional. TLOU2 is by far the boldest take in story telling and that reflects by the hate it has received. Again I don’t think ND are geniuses in their writing ability but I do appreciate this take in this case. The duality of holding two opposing forces as a single truth is exceptionally difficult to convey and the fact that only 5% of the population can even do this shows why people have review bombed this game. The game requires you to have an open mind which was a risk they took because most people simply do not have this ability. And for that I applaud ND in doing this because it truly subverted expectations in a clever way unlike some other properties (The Last Jedi). The game is a must play despite some writing missteps in areas of the story — the story itself is excellent in how they wanted to tell it.

Jogo fantástico e impactante. The last of us part 2 é capaz de colocar na pele de Ellie e fazer você ter uma montanha russa de emoções, como por exemplo, ódio, tristeza, saudade, amor... O jogo é tecnicamente uma obra prima, com gráficos insanos e um realismo jamais visto nos vídeo games. Logíco que tem um probleminha ou outro ali, mas nada tira o brilhantismo e a coragem da Naughty Dog com essa obra. O jogo tem que ser sentido e jogado. É preciso prestar atenção aos detalhes. Principalmente nas expressões faciais fantásticas. Olhares dizem muito nesse jogo. é preciso entender a profundidade psicológica e emocional dos personagens para entender a real mensagem do jogo. É um jogo para quem tem maturidade.
One of the worst "sequels" to ever be made. Technically, its absolutely gorgeous but there's very little "game" in this game. You could say the same for its predecessor but at least that game had a surprisingly warm story and set of characters. This game is just unpleasant almost from the get-go. The more you play, the less you enjoy it. By the end, I was almost on autopilot. It felt like work to finish it. This is a cardinal sin in gaming. Games should keep you engaged and wanting to play, this does the exact opposite. I'm just glad its over with so I can go play something else... I'll give it a 2 out of 10 for the great visuals.
Hi im new to reviewing games, and i know there are many people out there who like the game i however did not. The gameplay and graphics were amazing, but as a story driven game this was just not a good story as a player you want to avenge Joels death and you dont get to do that. I also found myself not wanting to finish the game because i knew i would end up letting abby go it to me seemed so pointless of me going on the journey in the first place.

So disappointed! It seems it was made to troll everyone. The people that worked on it should be ashamed. I feel violated That is all I will say.

1 point gives to the amazing graphic, -9 points give to the terrible story. This game makes me feel sick after I beat it, really really uncomfortable. I don’t think that should be what games are made for. A game made for total political propaganda. This time Naughty Dog has really disappointed us as gamers, they not only provided this mess to us, but also destroyed the first TLOUS, so that’s what you get... 1 point. Really really disappointing! A total trash!
I love my playstation, and i have been using playstation brand for almost 20 years and of course i love naughty dog for bringing masterpiece games for playstation users for a decade. I dont know how many times i have finished last of us part 1. I bought it for both ps3 and ps4. Also bought all the uncharteds for both ps3 and for ps4 again. I put this information right here to show that i am in love with what naught dogs make. Last of us part 2 is a marvel on technological level. Every minute of it on my screen looked astonishing. Details are over the charts. It might be the most "quality" game ever. I liked the half part of the story too. I love Joel but he had to go. He was a villain in the first game and he still was a villain in the second game. He doomed humanity for his selfish agenda. So no i am not mad about Joel dying in a gruesome way. I am mad about naught dogs trying to lecture us with its agenda. I dont play games to listen to your agenda no matter which which part you are serving. It is a 10/10 game but i am giving it a 5 so that naughty dogs might see that we are not buying their products to listen to their real life politics.
Good characters can carry an ugly game,but bad characters can't do that for beautiful graphics. A lot of the personalities are remade,Joel isn't even as cautious as the first one.Hell,you can't even kill Abby,making the story a waste of time.There aren't that many additions to the mechanics,and sometimes the camera can kill you.The story might be meant to stick to the player.It only does it because it infuriates the living hell out of you.
Not much there to say about the game, the gameplay is amazing! Graphics on point! BUT the way the story is paced out for being a sequel, and having the excruciating weight of high expectations, it was a no show. From playing the first game and enjoying it by playing it 5 more times. This sequel does not have replay-ability. As soon as the game ended I did not care to go back and beating it in the hardest difficulty, I did not care to go back and 100% the game. It was a done to done put the game down and go enjoy another game type of deal. As I would always tell my friends when it came to fan favorite movies, animes, and books. A good story has to have an impactful plot, it can come in a character death, in character development, or as a reader gather more points to the story to make it whole. In this game they went with deaths. The character they chose for deaths very agreeable into which ones would be more impactful. Now the way it’s executed is a different thing. This game did not do a good job in pacing out their “impactful plot points”. Throughout my gameplay I deeply felt the story was moving too quick. So when it came to the games impactful moments it didn’t feel like they were the main characters, it didn’t feel like those were the characters all the people cherished. It truly felt like some side character who you just met and died at the end of that journey. Even Henry and his little bother from the first game was more impactful than the main characters who died this game. Enough about story plot, I’m going to get to my point. I was truly disappointed in how it all turned out, I wanted this game for the longest. I was sitting impatiently waiting for the moment for TLoU2 to come out since it was announced to only get..... this.


Good game. The only problem was that I bought it expecting to play with Joel and Ellie throughout the whole game, and I had to play several hours with characters that I didn't want to.
Really enjoyed this game. story wasn’t as engaging and went in some odd directions. I found myself wanting to skip past a lot of story cutscenes, just wanting explore these amazing environments. Gunplay formula hasn’t changed much from first game, which isn’t a bad thing. The AI of the human characters has improved tremendously. For me I found that the combat was all about who could outmaneuver the best and gain the advantage it was incredibly fun. Yes the Story was not as compelling as the first but it was still a damn lot better than most games. I’ve been gaming for 30 years out of 1000s of games this is easily in my top 20 ever. Keep up the good work naughty dog love ya.
beautiful graphics in this world. But the new characters felt poorly written, just not believable. Almost not passable as humans. Both Tommy and Ellie where destroyed by the writers and made some very unbelievable choices. I felt the game draged on alot, didnt feel interesting or fun. Massive amount of plot armor. I forced my self to play it threw but it was disappointing. With Ellie being immun, I was hoping the writers would do something with that
Объективно игра на 8 из 10, но учитывая количество неадекватов поставивших ей 0, выдаю 10.
When your original game is renowned for its story, and you decide to "subvert expectations", you can't be surprised when most people hate it. You've Star Wars'ed this one, Neil. Congratulations, you really stuck it to all those haters. And you didn't even spit on it.
The game is great, fun, graphics, gameplay, sound! The story is more particular because it depends on the person's point of view, I found It particularly fantastic!

The Last of Us Part II Review Genre: Action-Adventure Gameplay: Linear-Combat Theme: Outbreak Developer: Naughty Dog Publisher: Sony Interactive Entertainment Interpretation is a powerful thought process, it’s what defines my experience to be different than yours. I didn’t enjoy playing Death Stranding at all, but a lot of my friends did. My favorite movie of this past decade was Mad Max: Fury Road, some of my friends hate that movie. What’s interesting in the two comparisons I made above is that deals with two sperate industries. I pay on average $20 to watch a movie in the theaters and formulate my judgment on the cinematics (was the story told well, was the pacing good, the performance delivered with the beats of the story, etc…). I do not do this with games that I pay $60 for. I formulate my judgment on video ‘games’ on the gameplay. Is this ‘game’ worth playing again, will my gameplay experience be different than someone else’s, or simply put am I having fun playing. TLOU2 has had a very rocky launch. Leaks ruining the major plot points, articles spreading of poor work culture surrounding crunch, and very divided community on the review scores. I don’t understand all the commotion going on about TLOU2 and its narrative. Perhaps the overwhelmingly well-received narrative of the first game set an unrealistic high expectation for this game. Instead, I was very invested in the narrative until the latter few chapters where things began to fall apart (certain decisions that I didn’t feel were justified with the characters built throughout the story). But it doesn’t matter. I think for a ‘video game’, it’s a pretty good story, hooray, so why did I give this game a 3/5 (above average)? What if I told you that you can buy yourself a cheap $20 controller on eBay, go on YouTube and search “TLOU2 walkthrough” (preferably one without any commentary). Grab your cheap controller and pretend as if you were playing the game. Do you think your experience would be any different? And if so, do you think to believe ‘that’ change in experience is worth $60? I don’t think it's worth $60. The gameplay in TLOU2 is filler. The gameplay can be summarized as getting from point A to point B, from one exposition dump to the next. The gameplay rarely strums enough justification to even be involved with the narrative. As if the hundreds of infected and people I killed play no part in the narrative. Even the one part of the story where I genuinely impressed with the gameplay (where Abby meets the Rat King or Patient Zero) plays no role in progressing the story. Better yet, go on YouTube and search “TLOU2 all cutscenes” and you wouldn’t be lost, the same complaint I had about Death Stranding. So, let’s talk about the gameplay. Of the hundred or so animations Naughty Dog worked on to bring its characters to life, you press one button to activate them. Press triangle to open doors, hold triangle to pry open doors, press cross to jump, mash square every now than when enemies grab a hold of you. The gunplay is generic at best where every gun feels the same (very similar to the original game). The puzzles are the best part, but as soon as you do it once or watch someone else do it, it’s no different than any other game sequence. Yes, you may find a gun that other players may not have found, or instead of killing enemies stealthily, you may have gone in guns blazing. It doesn’t matter, because Naughty Dog wants to tell you a story in their way, not your way. So, any form of gameplay that may have been different than other players result in the same ending, the same reward. This just shows you that the last 7 or so years of developing this video game, the focus was on TLOU2 the video rather than TLOU2 the game. I didn’t dislike TLOU2, but I felt like I was enjoying a movie rather than enjoying playing a game. So why the hell am I paying $60 for this? At which point of this game are the ridiculously detailed levels, the animations, the graphics justified with the gameplay? Do I regret spending money on this game? No. I feel so bad and want to express my praise to the developers at Naughty Dog for their efforts put into their work. It’s not their fault for leadership having a certain vision and telling them what to work on. I hope Naughty Dog, Rockstar Games, Hideo Kojima, etc… change their perspective on pushing this industry forward. But honestly, it won’t matter, because the only number that matters to most publishers and developers is the one that involves currency. 3/5 – Above Average
The beat game of this generation. Mature story and a perfect gameplay. If you have a ps4 you must play and if you have a xbox sell it, buy a play4 and play this masterpeace.
Игра прекрасна во всем: графика, сюжет, геймплей, атмосфера, графический дизайн, саундтрек и оптимизация. Минус балл за нелогичные действия некоторых персонажей и дисбаланс по некоторым ресурсам (одни попадаются слишком часто, другие слишком редко), да и вообще идеальных игр не бывает
1/10, a game with no heart. On a scale of broken (0) to godly(10), it’s tough to even consider a 2. 0 - Broken, unplayable. 1 - Anti-Immersive. Not broken. Compels me not to play. 2 - Non-immersive, nothing compels me to play. 3 - Non-immersive gameplay, Immersive concepts. 4 - On-Off Immersive - Interesting beats, not good enough to recommend. 5 - Semi-Immersive - No buyer's remorse, but no replay-ability. 6 - Immersive Easy – Fun, no challenge. 'I am too overpowered'. 7 - Immersive Fun - Easily re-playable. ' I want to play more' 8 - Immersive Challenging - From Rouges to Souls, you know them when you see them. You care about your characters. These are done so well you start reflecting on the artists who made the game and appreciate their craft at every turn. 9 - Immersive Tough - Sekiro, it is the only game I hold in this regard. 10 - Godly. It has not been made yet. “best game ever’ I watched a full play through of this game. I was considering buying it at first, but I figured I would enjoy it more without wasting money on garbage. It is a cinematic game with a 'fetch' simulator, a jank guitar mini-game, and occasionally zombie shooting/stealth. 35% of the time is cut-scenes or like 10 out of 30 hours. Characters/Story When people play games they want relate to the main character. That’s why I enjoy RPGs so much, the more you can customize your character the better. You want to be friends or enemies with different NPCs - cool; it's fun when you're making your character in the image that you desire. It’s fun to raid others, but it sucks when you get ganked. It’s fun to be selfish, but when someone else is it can become a problem for you quick. Likewise, when a developer’s character is selfish it will depend on how much you relate to them to either side with them or be put off by them. The less they are like you or your ideal protagonist, the more you don't want to be around them. Ellie is not like-able. One of the first scenes is Ellie waking up to some guy knocking on her door who is “not upset man" that Ellie was hooking up with the girl he just broke up last week (yeah, he does get the little ‘man’ micro-aggression in there, just… supreme dialogue). Then she gets mad at him for pretending to not be cool with it. She then walks to her new GF, Dina, who is passive aggressive towards Ellie for 'interrupting' her. Instead of using the initial pieces of dialogue for exposition to the world, they use it to set up this drama character dynamic which is … weird to say the least, but more importantly, usually not why I play games. Drama is a supplemental, it’s good if you can pull it off, but make me care about the world and the characters in it before trying to make me care about their personal (non-zombie survivor) problems. Anyway, then Ellie and her GF smoke weed and have some CG foreplay (just why? like c’mon), before the same guy from before comes in and gets mad at them for smoking weed and not being on patrol. Joel is missing. So as a gamer... I'm sitting here thinking... you're supposed to be patrolling and protecting these people, but you’re getting high and about to have sex while Joel is getting kidnapped. This is the point where I hit anti-immersion. I start to think, why would you intentionally craft a story where the character is messing around while the other is getting set-up to be killed. Like the hero wants to get high and have sex, not patrol the city, because that’s how the hero is. For example, later in the game Ellie’s GF Dina is pregnant, and they were just smoking weed. Like fair, Dina maybe didn’t know she pregnant, but the writers know. So why write in a pregnant woman smoking weed? And guess what... then Joel gets killed like a punk. Some loser just clobbers him with like a golf club. Like if you want more story, here it is - she seeks revenge and doesn’t get it. They got rid of one of the protagonists, I feel like the natural place would be to dive deeper into the relationship they have and the hardships of survival, but its stops right there at the beginning, not even 10% of the way into the game, feels like developers are rick rolling me at this point Pacing –35% of game is cut scenes and I’m here to game, not watch a movie. After getting dragged through a scene, you then have the luxury of going on these hour long ‘fetch’/ ‘fake puzzles’ Gameplay/Enemies - Nothing for like an hour, then a short cluster, for a couple minutes then back to the dull ‘grind.’ They should at least be peppered in, they are only there to make you feel like you ‘did something’ before getting to the next cut-scene. Controllers, combat, and platforming are plain status quo which is not good enough. Quality – It is smooth and it looks good. When you have the budget, there is no reason not to. It is on par with modern games, but it is not cutting edge. Conclusion –Buy Terraria, you won’t be disappointed.
Unglaublich packendes und emotionales Spiel. Damit hat Naughty Dog ein Meisterwerk abgeliefert. Ja, es spaltet die Gemüter und ja, man kann über manche Situationen/ Entscheidungen streiten aber Naughty Dog will provozieren mit dem Spiel. Sie wollen keine 08/15 Geschichten erzählen. Ich ziehe mein Hut vor euch und kann jedem dieses Meisterwerk nur raten zu spielen. Aber bitte vorher Teil 1 spielen und macht euch auf heftige Gewaltszenen gefasst, die nicht jedermanns Fall ist.
It took a second playtrough to come to terms with the game, and I really appreciated it!!! I would have given it a solid 10 like the 1st part... but there are some things that really hated about the way the story is developed, some events should be a cutscene instead of making you play them. Not everyone is ready to show empathy and those who could not bond with the villain will have a hard time coming to terms with the game. I think we can all appreciate the story just not the way we are meant to experience it. It pains me to give it a 8 instead of a 10 because in many ways its a solid masterpiece... but in so many ways I disagree with the experience that I also feel generous with that 8.
A masterpiece never has a game filled me with so much emotion. The gameplay is really good and fun but the story filled me with confusion and so much emotion that I haven't felt in a long time a game you must play.
Went into the game blind after hearing a lot of criticism. Overall I think the game has an excellent gameplay, mechanics, weapons, approaches to the encounters are all great. Joel’s death really does not go with his character’s personality but you could slip that if the rest of the story made sense. The story was ok, until a point in which everything stop making sense. I don’t really have too much to say after Abby’s day 3 everything stop for me after that. Felt they just rushed the endignas they were out of ideas. I think my opinion is unbiased as I am not a big fan of the series and I don’t hate either. Like I said I really enjoyed playing the game, but there points were storywise I had no idra what was the purpose.


I loved this game, the natural progression from the first game with the added mechanics such as sprint jump and crawling to name but a few. The story had so much weight behind it and the shock value at roughly the half way point when I thought I had finished the game was crazy. The progression through the story by both playable characters was amazing and the raft of emotions I experienced from this I have never been through so much during any game. For me this is the best game I've ever played. Wholly deserves GoTY and is a must play for any PS4 fan. I'm already on second play through and can't wait to experience this on the PS5 eventually.
It is a great game no problem with the game it a perfect game but this storyline is hard to play though it is a revenge that the character doesn’t kill the person they want to kill and you have to play the person who killed Joel
The quality of a story is not determined by whether you like it, especially when there is a lot of other players and media professionals who give quite high comments. It is completely OK to give a low score to the game that you dislike, but just do not call the game a junk, for it could really hurt the hearts of the gamers who love this game.
Graphics and game play has improved little, the story is slow and boring. The new characters aren't likable, The Abby part feels more like a side mission, One of the worst endings in video games history!
The main problem with The Last of Us 2 is that it fails on a conceptual level. ‘Violence begets violence’ may seem like some kind of deep philosophy but it really isn’t, and it’s also not particularly original. Marry that with outdated gameplay, poor writing, poor pacing, uninspired environmental ‘puzzles’ and unlikable characters, and you’ve got The Last of Us 2. It gets a 3 based on its technical achievement alone.
Strongly. A deep story that did not leave me indifferent. The themes that the game raises make you think about many things. Questions of humanity, violence, and forgiveness. What Ellie and other important story characters experience, you feel for yourself. Question: "what would I do?" A difficult story that manages to both amuse you and leave you alone with not the most pleasant thoughts. The same gray moral that permeates, that permeates the whole plot. It's beautiful. Years of waiting and hope. Naughty Dog did an incredible thing. A great intense gameplay that you dive into with your head. Excellent technical work. The game looks so amazing that I kept stopping and just looking at the surroundings. For this Titanic work, my low bow. Naughty Dog, thank you for the masterpiece continuation of the masterpiece game. Infinite respect to you. The emotions that your story has given me are incomparable to anything else. The Last of Us and The Last of Us Part 2-this is the story that I will remember for the rest of my life. Two of my favorite games. Thank you Naughty Dog. You are amazing.
Ao contrário de muitos, estou votando depois de ter jogado. O jogo tem gráficos belíssimos, uma jogabilidade perfeita. O ponto polêmico vai ser a história e o destino de alguns personagens. Quem não gostar disto depois de ter jogado eu compreendo. Mas, pra mim é um jogo nota 10.

story is horrible, but except this other parts are generally good Pros: - gameplay - graphics - sound - music Cons: - story - character design - character development - plot holes
This is a truly engrossing game and an exceptional piece of storytelling. If you liked the original then I can't recommend this enough. It will put you through a whole range of emotions, and the gameplay itself reinforces the storytelling so that you really do question the protagonists actions. Every violent interaction is contextually grounded, so while at times it gets very first it never feels mindless. The characters are so developed and relatable that it says a lot for the future of gaming. For me at times it did become difficult, almost unenjoyably so, but the anxiety created only aided the storytelling. Clearly the intention. A great game all in all.

Игра отличная геймплеес,саундтреками,сюжетом. Концовка мощная.НЕТ В ЭТОЙ ИГРЕ "ПРОПАГАНДЫ ЛГБТ"! Концовка отличнейшая,достойный сиквел.
Such a let down, its hard to convey the dissapointment via text without sounding like a fanboy. Almost wish the game only used new charactors in the same world with a completly seperate revenge story.
Even if the leaks didn't came out for the the game . Its still a bad game . All of the new character in this are not well writing most of them didn't give reason why the fans should care . The part i enjoyed in the game was the flashback . Seven year after the masterpiece of the first game had better character development . I would the terrible sony sequel 2016 Ratchet and Clank , Sly 4 , Jack and daxter psp , Ratchet and Clank size matter . The company got me into gaming made on worst game i ever played is owned by Sony . And i happy they didn't make Jak 4 if the did they are going be S==t so thank you .
From a technical standpoint, this game is absolutely stunning hats off to the graphics department. From a gameplay standpoint this game is fun when you're actually playing. There's a big boss battle here that should be explored and expanded if a third installment is introduced. The cordycep zombies mutation gives great opportunity to create great massive enemies. The issues with this game lies in the story. This is spoiler free. I am a big fan of TLOU. This next installment seems to be at war with itself between the story it's trying to tell and the gameplay. A stealth/shooter game is not the best way to tell this story. This story actually works much better as a movie than it does a game. This story is about revenge/trauma/ PTSD/ guilt/ and forgiveness. That's a very hard thing to pull off when you are killing countless enemies for entertainment. What you have is a story not matching the avenue that is being used to tell it. There is also too many cut scenes and flashbacks used. It leaves the gamer holding the remote doing nothing and I always advice against it. The first game added a significant portion of it's narrative to the actual gameplay it made it more entertaining. But sometimes, when you make choices and write yourself in a corner you have to use flashbacks to get yourself out. Flashbacks are a very weak narrative tool and must be used wisely. This game went too hard at this. This is why the story was average at best which hurts a narrative game's replayability to a certain degree. The gameplay is tense, yes there's a form of repetitiveness from it but there's only so much you can do inside the world that was built. It feels tense throughout especially at harder difficulties. Overall, I enjoyed playing this game. This is not 10/10 game of the year material reviewers are saying. It's also not the trash people are claiming it to be because they are mad at the story's direction. It's a solid 7 out of 10 that will inevitably be in the running for game of the year and inevitably lose. From a story standpoint it's weaker than it's predecessor. Most everything else is an improvement. Graphics: 10 Voice acting: 10 Gameplay: 8 Story: 5.5 Replayability: 6 Overall: 7.9
Playing this game is an experience like no other! The story is harsh, but real. To be able to elevate this from TLOU and continue this journey with realistic story telling like this is an achievement all in its self. Everything, so far, is the video gaming adventure I was hoping for and this exceeded my expectations by leaps and bounds. Let me add it is rated "Mature" and only "mature" people will understand the masterpiece Naughty Dog just delivered. Bravo and can't wait for Uncharted 5 :0)

Consequences...real world consequences. While playing this i felt healthy stress and tension, i loved every second of it. That tension was a combination of survival horror elements and not knowing what happens next. In it´s core The Last of Us Part II is an exploration of hate, revenge and consequences of one's actions. There are a lot of heartwarming and sweet moments throughout The Last of Us Part II which balance the heavy subject matter perfectly. I liked that player gets to see games conflict from different points of view. Like in the real world, conflicts and opposing points of view are not black and white, there´s no clear bad guy or good guy. I don´t want to spoil the story, but lets just say that in the game, after being blinded by hate that sudden relization of the cost of ones choices hits hard. Graphics are amazing and enviroments are astoundingly rich with detail. Story is great, it´s an emotional rollercoaster, it stays with you when you finish the game. Gameplay is exciting and in most cases keep you the edge of your seat. No game is perfect 10, so this is 9.
So I've beaten this game twice now, and while it's not a "masterpiece" as IGN called it, it's certainly a solid game and one of the best PS4 games out there. The graphics, controls, voice acting, and gameplay are all solid. I enjoyed playing as Ellie, but honestly I enjoyed playing as Abby more. The f*ck tards out there bashing this game because they killed off you know who, or the lesbian part of the story between Ellie and Dina, honestly you're all f*cking morons. My only gripes with the game are parts of the story are poorly written, boring and cheesy, and the gameplay, while fun for the most part, was kind of "been there, done that" as well. 8/10.

I hate abby for killing joel but after i played as abby i started to like her and l think her relation with yara and lev humanized her And in the end of story l didn't want ellie to kill her but also l hated her because torturing joel like that! Now the story aside, I think the gameplay has improved several times compared to the part one

Игра просто слабая. В ней слабый тривиальный сюжет. Часть персонажей есть постольку по сколько. Боевая система абсолютно не изменилась. Игра вообще не развивается. Она просто топчется на месте. Ну разве только графика поднялась. Хотя в игре много статике. Не все можно разбить. Точнее сказать почти не чего разбить нельзя. Но есть вазы или флаги которые можно разбить или сжечь. Игра напичкана клеше. Вы видите грузовик под которым можно пролезть наверно кто-то нападет когда из него влезете. Прислушиваетесь некого нет. Пролазите под ним и баз на вас нападает зомби. Как неожиданно. И таких моментов море. Разработчики просто не умеют делать стримеры поэтому вы будете зевать и смеяться над их попытками. В одном моменте мне так все надоело, что я шел просто и стрелял во всех зомборей. Играл я кстати на среднем. И когда всех убил я начал ходить и лутать локацию. Когда все обыскал я пошел к сюжетной двери, которая открывалась очень медленно и в друг, когда я ее начал открывать на меня полетели зомбори накал страстей, съедят или нет вырвусь или нет. Думаете я так себя чувствовал? Нет я думал какого они полезли, когда начал открывать дверь а не когда я тут гранаты кидал и из дробаша стрелял. Или, по-вашему открывающаяся дверь громче оружия и гранат? В игре кстати рандомно лут. Что неимоверно бесит. Я пользовался револьвером, а пистолет не тратил. Так вот мне падали патроны только на пистолет который и так под завязку. Вы скажете, но у Эли сумка за спиной не ужели она не может взять хотя бы на один патрон по больше. Нет. Игра искусственно создает ощущение отсутствия патрон. И это сильно бесит. Например, встречаете врагов они в вас стреляют как будто у них тонна патрон. И они не кончаются. Вы такие ага и загружаетесь с контрольной точки и убиваете их по одном тихо и незаметно. И у них вдруг не одного патрона нет. Почему? А потому что надо создать ощущение безысходности и отсутствие боеприпасов. А сюжет — это вообще. Вы убили 200 человек. А Эли где-то в середине жалуется, что она видишь пытала девушку что бы получить информацию. Которая той еще мразью была. Да мне побоку. Любому было бы побоку. Она же чуть тебя не грохнула. Была бы она удачливей она бы тебя забила и еще бы радовалась этому. Кто так сюжет то строит? Сюжет так же создает тонну вопросов. Например, в игре говориться только один врач мог сделать вакцину и его убил Джоил. Это вы видели еще в первой части, если играли конечно. А почему только он? Или это он создал вирус? В первой части говорится что это цикады. И вроде бы тогда все сходится. НО нет. Тогда зачем они пытались вакцину сделать? Карты большие, но пустые и скучные. Делать там вообще нечего. Много припасов вам не дают собрать. А больше там и делать то нечего. .
The Last of Us 1 gave the industry a lesson in story writing, character development and made you care about the characters. The last of us 2 involves a terrible story line with absolutely no character development which is driven by a woke narrative. The graphics are good, the gameplay is clunky and the ending, very much like the repetitive nature of the gameplay is pointless. Naughty dog should have stuck to creating good games and left politics out of gaming.
How on earth is this game getting anything over a 5/10?? Just like the mainstream media can't be trusted with politics. "Big gaming sites" might even be worse!! They wouldn't dare rate this stunning and brave game anything less than a "MASTERPIECE" The graphics are fantastic and the gameplay is solid no doubt. However the story is bad it's laughable. It's a pathetic revenge story where you don't even get revenge!! Within three hours of the game I was ready to smash my ps4. The middle is ridiculous forcing you to play as Abby who no one cares about. Then they try to make characters we love just so out of character so you'll try and emphasize with Abby. It fails so badly. I’ll wrap the review up by saying the ending could’ve redeem the entire game if they would’ve just let you kill Abby in such a brutal and fantastic way but noooo she survives and manages to bite off two of Ellie fingers lmao what??? This might be the worst sequel to a game in the history of gaming with the story so pathetic it’s some thing a 16-year-old one right on our Tumblr.
I am fine with Joel dying, but the way he went out was out of character and poorly executed. The worst part of the game was to spend +10h as Abby to "care" about her and her crew. Instead I went from hate to loathing the characters, I could honestly write a whole thesis on why they all suck. Fighting Tommy and Ellie was the most idiotic decision ever made. Why would you want to fight beloved character and live with the ones you hate? PATHETIC! The game is not a 0/10 and definitely not a 10/10. It has wonderful graphics, sound and gameplay. There is a lot of wonderful sections such as Ellie flashbacks, the rooftop scene, the Seraphite city, Jackson. However I would NOT recommend this game and ND should feel ashamed for their false advertisement. If Ellie truly was the only playable character then the game could have been A LOT better.
Graphically, its one of the most beautiful games of 2020.....but thats about it where to good parts end. Gameplay 5/10 literally offers nothing new from its predecessor Story 0/10 A disappointing, pseudo intellectual revenge plot that fails to deliver on its message. I have yet to see a single praiser of this story respond with other than "you just don't get it." Regardless, lets see if they delete this review with the others, right metacritic?
The Last of Us Part II is a story focused game that emphasizes mainly on the revenge theme. The graphics and sound design in the game are spot on, 10/10. Sadly everything else is shallow at best. I pre-ordered the game and my punishment was to get the platinum even if I hate it. Even based on the low difficulty for the platinum I can tell ND knew how bad the game is because most of the time when the platinum trophy is trivial you are looking at a game that is trying to sell just for trophy whores. Out of all ND games this was the easiest platinum by far. The gameplay is obsolete, very similar to the first iteration of the game. Let me get into details: the game follows the same pattern, you have exploration sections where you search for loot and collectibles, you have stealth combat areas where you have the option to avoid fights completely and you have sections where a conflict is triggered and you have to fight. Some game levels are completely made to build up characters and those levels can be very boring especially if you have to play a character that you hate. From the gameplay mechanics perspective they introduced craftable silencers, some shallow rope mechanics puzzles, you can dodge attacks with great animation fluidity, now characters can jump if this can be considered a new feature in a 2020 game and you have to fight against 2 new enemy types (dogs - that can follow your scent and shamblers - a new zombie type that is easier than bloaters). Besides this it is the same game as the first one. The enemies are dumb, you can create a pile of bodies and they will keep coming to you. The gameplay is pretty much the same as TLOU 1. Another annoyance is the length of the cutscenes. In the first game they were able to build relationship between Ellie and Joel by adding small auto triggered conversations while you were looting and exploring and the cutscenes were well balanced with gameplay. This game is 40% cutscenes and sometimes cutscenes are never ending. I would give it a solid 7/10 since I enjoyed some of the levels a lot, whereas I hated other levels. Oh boy here it comes, the big elephant in the room, the most important things: the story and character design. Based on the trailers and critic reviews you end up determining that most of the game will be about Joel and Ellie. The critic reviews will show you only Ellie gameplay. That is not the case. Half of the game you play as Ellie and half of the game you play as a new character called Abby (a strong independent woman in gaming, a political agenda on a stick, it is a pumped up version of Nadine from Uncharted 4). I don't understand at all why they tried so hard to make her as repulsive as possible, she is hideous, she always takes selfish decisions, she is way more cruel than Ellie (both of them are very cruel but when Ellie takes bad decisions it seems she does that because there is no other way and she is always heavily punished for doing so, when Abby takes bad decisions she has options, and she chooses to be a bad person and she doesn't get any punishment whatsoever, she even cheats on Mel with Owen and Mel is pregnant with Owen and the game chooses to show us a disgusting sex scene between the two). Also another political agenda is Ellie being gay. From my point of view this is done very well and it doesn't affect the story in any way, but it just seems so political from the moment when they started it with the "Left Behind" DLC. Also through out the game Ellie seems to take one stupid decision after the other, again something forced in terms of story, just because the game wants to have a reason to punish Ellie. Lev, another character is a trans person and the second half of the game follows Abby trying to save Lev and her sister Yara. Again Lev takes some stupid decisions and Yara gets punished and dies because of his mistakes. Again, another character added for political agenda purposes. Even if the game tries a lot to make you empathize and feel for the new set of characters it fails miserably because the characters seem to be so artificial, so you of place. Another big problem is Joel's death. First of all he is killed at the beginning of the game to create shock value. The problem is the way he is killed by the game. The Joel, Ellie duo relationship was the core of this game, they manage to loose that in the beginning and the big problem is the false advertisement from game trailers that show a different picture. I understand the game wants you to feel bad but the way they do it seems just very superficial and cruel. The second half of the game forces you to play as Abby and forces you to feel for her. I didn't want to play as Abby and couldn't care less about her and her motivations I wanted to see her punished for what she did to Joel. Instead the game ends with Ellie sparing Abby's life while Ellie looses 2 fingers in the final fight and she basically looses everything while Abby looses nothing. Final verdict: 0/10.
Just like GOT S8 ! SO SAD! WORST story ever !!! The real world is sad dark enough and this game just make it worse!It force you watch beloved character got butchered and force you play that ugly killer ??? not only this in the end we can't even get revenge！can we at least have a choice??? If you love the first game, stay away from this !
Игра отличная с точки зрения механик и так далее но только сюжет подкачал и если серьезно то сильно очень, если бы Эбби была в 1 части то претензий нету шедевр! Мы были бы наблюдающими за этим жестоким миром а не болельщиками 2 главных героев Но нам старались навязать Эбби и показать ее раскрыть это было нудно уж слишком и я забывал про Элли и сцен эпичных меньше за Элли и если бы так не было игра была бы лучше можно было бы просто дать выбор в конце игры и ничего этого бы не было поверьте
Man I waited 7 years for this game. And It was something I was looking forward to in 2020. Unfortunately 2020 is a cursed year. The Last of Us 2 was a huge disappointment. And I have a lot to say. The game was a beautiful and entertaining game. I had fun wondering around Seattle. And the opening of Jackson. But I am really disappointed with that I was sold on a game by the trailers shown and ended up with a different game entirely. My problems with this game is completely the story and the narrative it decided to tell. Right off the back 30 minutes into the game they kill off one of the most important characters of the Franchise. Joel! I was sold on a story I thought was going to be another adventure with Joel and Ellie dealing with their conflicts from where the first game left off. Instead I got a game that felt like It was a shove into the mud on a rainy day. Instead I got a game that was a false glimmer of hope of trying to gain justice and ended with more tragedy than triumph. I absolutely did not feel anything Naughty Dog was aiming for. And maybe it was just poor execution. But right after joel died all I wanted was to get vengeance and justice for his death and I was IN for that. But it kept dragging on and on and eventually you get into these missions where I feel like the game was trying to make you empathize with the Antagonist. Which is all well if you hadn't killed off an important character too soon. After that all I felt was lust to kill Abby. And I completely did not care for Abby's friends. Nor the kids she cared about. During all of the Abby drama. I just felt like I wanted her dead, her purpose meant nothing to me. And I was just trying to rush through her story to get back to trying to kill her. And then when you finally got back to it, You are let down. Ellie let's Abby Live. She finally could of had justice for Joel. And Ellie let her go.. How big of her. But that's not okay for a player who wanted to get justice served. Maybe others feel differently. But I was not happy at all with that decision. And to make it worse. Ellie lost some fingers sl she can't play the guitar Joel gave her and she lost everything. Dina was gone all of her belongings were put into one room just to be left to be forgotten. And that hurts. Joel dying was not the reason I was angry at this game. It was that it felt like the game didn't want to continue where the first game left off. Sure it did! But in poor poor flash backs just to establish a bunch of meaningless characters for a future game. It just felt like a huge disrespect to the first game. Unfortunately Just like this game. I will also leave it to be forgotten. I am just disappointed. Huge fan lf the franchise and my love was killed and I feel like the first game is meaningless now. Hopefully Part 3..if there is a part 3 ..makes up for what was unfairly done. I just hope I'm not sold on a game I won't get.
Everyone is bombed from the fact that Joel is dead. But for some reason no one remembers that they wanted to drain it back in the first part. In this case, there is an alternative, where Tess tortures the main character in the game The last of us and then kills. Now remember the first full trailer for The last of Us part two. Ellie plays the guitar and is immediately shown how Joel Miller enters and it immediately became clear that Ellie would be avenged for his death..
I am shocked by all the angry reviewers giving this game a 0/10. I personally thought that this game was a masterpiece. The graphics were the best that I’ve ever experienced on a console. The smallest details of the scenery were amazing. The weather, sound, scenery and atmosphere were fantastic. And there were scenes that made you jump out of your seat. I thought that the game was so great that I didn’t want the game to end I wanted to play the story forever. I for one liked the story because it showed revenge from both sides. I also showed how people who only care about revenge Ruin the lives of so many others. At the end, Ellie has a baby with Dina and a perfect house/life and a nice life but she gives it all up for revenge. When she returns to her house it is empty, just like her. I also avoided all spoilers so Joel’s death was a shocker to me. It made me think of Ned Starks death on Game of Thrones. Then to later have Ellie be a boss for Abby was mind blowing. Then by the end of the game I didn’t want to kill Abby because I understood her pain as well. In my book Naughty Dog made another masterpiece and they continue to be hands down my favorite video game developer. I can’t wait to play their next game.
This is a masterpiece, just like the first game. I refuse to even try to understand all this hate. There is nothing, NOTHING to hate about this game. Everything remains rock solid: the tight gameplay, the setting, the tone, the characters we have grown to love over the years. The second chapter in Ellie's story just develops that world even further, adding more depth and complexity to an already very complex world and story. Say what you want, this is an extremely provocative game, about which no one will be able to remain indifferent to. It never leaves you in your comfort zone, it´s always messing with your feelings, ideas, certainties, truths. Over 30 hours + I felt an immense range of sensations: anger, sadness, joy at the little things in a collapsing world, frustration, confusion. Until a beautiful, poetic and heartbreaking conclusion, in the best Last of Us style. If you have finished and TRULY hated that game, ok, it's your right to hate it. If you haven't even finished this story and decided to just board the hate train, I invite you to expand your horizons, try to dive into this story as it was conceived and accept - even if you don't agree - all the subversive choices in the script. Last of Us 2 is not a game, it is a life experience.

Amazing game and loved the direction the team at ND took! One of the best games I've played in a while. Graphics, action and storytelling were a great and bigger step from its predecessor. It's a dark and brutal game but beautiful at the same time. I can see why some people hate it because of the emotional attachment to certain characters in part 1 and how they were used in part 2. Despite the early heartbreaking moment that most wishes didn't happen. I thought it was necessary and having the ability to play both sides of the story to get the perspectives is what makes this game great. I hated Abby in the beginning and learned to love the character as I played throughout to which I had a hard time playing when coming to the confrontations between Ellie and Abby. This game is definitely worth the money and does not deserve the hate it's getting. However, I wished the game was even longer or had the multiplayer mode as it did in part 1. Excited for the direction it'll take in part 3 if ND decides to make a sequel.
The last of was has always been about Ellie and Joel plus the stealth gameplay. Tlou2 mis represented what the game is really about.
Such bad game ever i experience ( bad story line long cutscene and very bad ending) over all they lied about playable characters they tricked us to making money on our shoulders. I don't recommend the game at all
Definitely one of the best story driven games I played, Naughty dog delivers yet again with beautiful visuals, combat gameplay and engaging story; even though it may not be the story that everybody wants.

This game is very disturbing. I don't know how anyone can play this and not feel uncomfortable. I think the story is horrendous but the visuals and sound are pretty amazing so I'll give it that.
It’s a phenomenal game. Ofcourse they could have killed the Brother instead but nontheless a phenomenal experience !! Must buy and must play!!
Setting aside the terrible bigotry the game has unveiled, it is the disappointment of the generation to me. Not a single likable character, all more shallow than the other, the "choices" the game forces you to make. The storytelling is far below what ND has used us to. There ARE memorable scenes and moments, but I forced myself to finish the game as it could be incredibly boring and on the nose. There is close to zero gameplay innovation (Last of Us came out SEVEN years ago, guys), it's buggy as hell and you only understand the combat environments when everyone is dead. They delivered a Last of Us 1.5 and are being hailed as messiahs by the press when they shipped what could have been an acceptable stand alone 3 years ago but not 7 years later. It felt unnecessary. Meanwhile, Ghost of Tsushima gets 83...it boggles the mind.
Art whether visual or audio-based is phenomenal. But this game's story does a huge disservice to the game and sucks out all the fun. They tried to make the story special but instead made the biggest disappointment of a sequel ever. I enjoy sad stuff but this game is just misery. An inconclusive misery. The game tries to set itself apart but sacrifices all the buildup and the positives the franchises had. The game is emotional only on a superficial level. But it is good at misdirecting people with depressive stuff. The main character of previous story is sacrificed for shock value and we get a mediocre story in return. It results in his overall story being meaningless just to serve as a plot point. This mediocre revenge trope is supposed to have some deeper meaning but it fails at that too. What is the point of deeper meaning when life or death gets decided by luck. Revenge is bad? Not if you are lucky and those whom you wanted to exact revenge on are unlucky. You should forgive others? Not if others aren't main characters. The cycle of revenge is still going on because you killed others along the way and people close to those you killed can still come to direct revenge at you. Also the story has plotholes. Characters and their intentions are contradictory. There are elements of the game which are mind-blowing but the whole game is super disappointing. I don't recommend this game to the true fans of the original TLOU and those who loved the original characters. The world would have been better place if this game never existed.
Nice graphics, good gameplay. But the game does not come close to the first one. The relationship between the protagonists is only superficial in comparison and the character development isn't great either. It's also unfortunate that you have to play a character for 6-8 hours, to which you unfortunately haven't established a relationship, because the background story was told too short. Unfortunately no top game that actually lives from the story.
As a fan of all Naughty Dog games, most TLOU I'm very disappointed how the second part was promoted and what they have done with the story direction. The first one is with MGS and FFVII one of my top three Playstation games. The Last of Us 2 had good moments (I loved the museum part so much), the game has great action. The environments, the mood in the game and a lot in the game are fantastic. Never saw a Playstation game looking that good. But TLOU is about the story, the bound between Ellie and Joe. And this game, takes that all from us. So much felt forced, implausible, not needed and not interesting at all. Some characters are so annoying and boring, the story telling is bad and the pacing is very confusing and distracting. I totally understand everybody hating this game. I also understand people liking this game. So for me it looks and plays too good for a zero. But so much is done so bad too, that it is never ever a 10/10. And because the important part (story) is badly done, I give it a 4/10.
The story is divisive most people won't like the story but it makes you feel empty and depressing. But the gameplay music and combat the story telling is top notch. Kudos to Naughty dog for this amazing experience. I couldn't get over the music Gustavo is a legend.
This game is beautiful: Amazing graphics; Perfect Subject; A comfortable and simple gameplay; The well-staged Catsenes of the Stage; As such, there is no LGBT agenda; TLoU Part II - a worthy reception of the great original. P.s. The game was taken to the platinum trophy.
Story was utter garbage, killing Joel in that manner was probably one of the worst developer mistakes I’ve ever seen. Them they give you a horrible revenge plot that ends up falling through anyway. PLUS they make you play as Abby for a whole chunk of the game after his death. This means that players are forced to play a character that they hate for a large portion of the game. It makes the game unbelievably hard to finish playing. Then Ellie’s girlfriend leaves her and on top of that Ellie can no longer play Joel’s song. Terrible game, don’t recommend.
The game actively looks for ways to punish players for investing emotions into the game by using illogical plots that completely contradict the premises from the previous title. There's neither urgency of survival nor compelling dialogues for me to stick with the one-dimensional gameplay that has strange pacing. I physically cannot continue furthering the plot, the 10+ hrs of gore without a valid justification made me started to question my desire to play the game. P.S: for ppl questioning game play time, Australia is on different timezone?

The leaks were absolutely true this game was a mistake and naughty dog should have just left the game alone after the 1st one.
I am going to try and keep this short since there are thousands of similar critiques out there. Overall the game is okay. It's probably the best looking console game on the market right now. Real-time game graphics and cinematic graphics are top-notch. Combat is very well polished and enemy AI is some of the best I've seen for stealth-type games. The last good thing I will say is that the acting is well done with the material they had to work with. That's where all my good things end. I think Naughty Dog was successful in that I felt hate, and I felt what Ellie was feeling: to be emotionally exhausted. The problem? The whole experience was not worth it in the end. They risked a lot in this game, and in my optinion it did not pay off. i enjoyed Ellie at first, but they wrote her into a tragic trope. Always getting beat down, always making the wrong decisions, and generally just kind of acting dumb. Her story arc was narrow and felt lacking in the end. Despite all other achievements, story mattered most and it was not good or satisfying. Our other new character Abby, is also not very interesting. She shows no remorse for her actions early in the story and generally seems to not care all that much about her friends. They try to make you like her, but it's all surface level. There's no real depth to her and I didn't feel like she was relatable. Near the end of the game, they have essentially morphed Abby into Joel 2.0 and it didn't feel earned. I wanted to love this game, and I struggled for literally weeks after beating to try and find some redeeming quality to make myself like it. I couldn't. In the end i just questioned the point, and wish with all my heart that it would have been different.
This game has one of the best graphics and animation but the story is bad, a lot of plot holes and characters that are not interesting. really disappointing I waited years for this game and I didn't expect the story to be this bad. there were good moments tbh. finished the game in 23 hours - great graphics and animation. - decent gameplay felt outdated a bit. - characters not interesting. - bad narration and a lot of plot holes.
Normally i would score this game a 8, but because of al the 0's given, i give it a 10. The game isn't perfect, the story isn't perfect, but the gameplay en the emotions that come with it are impressive. Some people are dissapointed and i get it, but the **** this game is getting is ridiculous.

Overhyped game. Nice graphics wasn't hard when Uncharted is a beautiful master a piece. Has some glitches like Dina can't be spotted by the enemies when she is right infront of them. Walking through objects,... Story is garbage. Do yourself a favor and don't listen to paid fake journalist who get paid to write fake reviews. Just go watch some episodes on youtube, decide for yourself and then wait untill it's into the 15 dollars range or buy it 2nd hand because that's what it deserves because that's what it is worth. Director gave himself big brain in the game, more like small PP.



Great graphics, some nice new touches, some nerve gripping moments but ultimately all drowned out by a game that has put politics and a politic view of the director on gender equality and feminism centre stage at the sake of a video game. The game could of gone a thousand ways but ambushed its fans with a misleading trailer and the death of a major character two hours in for the political message. The heart breaking. Politics should take a back foot back seat role in video games. Let games be engaging emotionally but don't make them unbearable.
Pretty simple game to review... The mechanics and the graphics are awesome and made my full play through generally enjoyable but sadly the forced story narratives that treats their pre-existing characters like their dumb morons with no previous survival experience and don't get me started on the fact that you spend half the campaign as Abby...
Remarkable landmark on Video Games History. Great achievement on technic and a complex story with tons of subtexts and avoiding judgments. An excellent portrait of humanity on its best and worse. Masterpiece, that will remembered for the rest of Video Games History. NOT FOR CHILDREN, in age or spirit.
Okey, let me get it straight. The game graphic, music and gameplay is great. I would give a 7/10 for this. However, I only rated this game a 0/10. Mainly because it has the worst story I had every seen in my life. The story completely ruined every good thing about the game and make me regret spending 25+ hours on this piece of SXXT. Like I have no problem with Joel died in the game, but please make it reasonable. A man who used to not trust anyone in the first game will directly introduce himself and walk into a bunch of strangers with guns? Seriously? Not to mention why would anyone (including herself) send a pregnant woman to a battlefield while there are still a bunch of soldiers within the camp? What if you suddenly need to give birth? Not to mention how dangerous it is for pregnant woman to do strenuous exercise. Furthermore, why do you create a main character (Abby) with such disgusting double standard and illogical when making decisions? (Joel killed my dad, I kill Joel and I do not kill Ellie to let her kill my friends. and then said you wasted my sympathy of not killing you. Are you serious?) Yet you want me to play as her for half of the game. Upgrade all the guns to killed Jesse??? There are still a lot more illogical/awkward/unnecessary scenes within the game that I did not want to waste my time for mentioning all of it. Whoever are interested, you can read the detailed explanations on reddit or youtube. To sum up, do not buy this piece of SXXT. This game only receive a 0 because you can not rate it negative. PS: I personally love female character as the lead (I love Horizon zero dawn) and I have plenty friends who are gay or lesbian. So stop saying that the reviewers who dislike the game are racist or any kind of -phobe. This game has the most terrible design in the story telling part and that is why we do not like the game.
TLOU2 is a very fun action horror game in terms of gameplay. The gameplay is so much better than The original with many improvements I love the new combat and some of the new weapons this game brings. However, I didn't play last of us 2 just for gameplay I played it for its story and oh boi is it bad... Now the game has some really cool story moments when you're in the flashback scenes but the overall story is complete jank full of plot holes for example in the first game Joel was a deep complex character that knew the wasteland but here he's like oh look strangers hers my name and id dw about it. for me he's not even the same character any more. Most characters in this game are so 1 note its not funny take Dina as an example what is her character outside of "I love Ellie" what is there? Sure we learn some stuff from her past, but she's so one note that's nowhere near as complex as character Bill in the first game or Tes or anyone else that was there. This is failure of a sequel in my opinion. If there's a 3rd part I'm not buying it.
Everyone who is trashing this game has no idea what they are talking about. They are just mad about some of the decisions that were made. I loved the first game and I love this game. Sure there are some things that I may not have liked at first, but as I played through the game, I grew to love all of the characters. Ellie and Abby both are great characters to play as. The side characters were fantastic as well. I played the game twice and absolutely loved it. I highly recommend this game to anyone. Don't listen to the haters. Play it and make your own decision.
Absolutely amazing, excellent character development and arch. Takes you down paths you wouldn't expect in a beautifully designed world. Wrought with emotion and twists you wouldn't expect to see.

The treatment of flagship characters in this failed attempt at a squeal is truly embarrassing. Everyone should ask for and receive a refund. This is clearly a cash grab by Naughty Dog. How they can expect you to play as a character that you have no empathy for in a game based on character development and storytelling is ridiculous to say the least. I am just truly disappointed.
Simplesmente o melhor game dos últimos anos,nível de god of war,uncharted spider Man. Porém com uma narrativa impecável,gráficos excepcionais e a melhor jogabilidade da geração,esse é the last of us parte 2.
I honestly enjoyed this game. I know alot of players have mixed feelings specially when it comes to story which I would agree. But gameplay is nice and it was fun to play.
I loved the first game it was my all time favorite game. a perfect 10/10. This game misses the mark. They miss represented the final product and destroyed story. positives: - game play mechanics - graphics - setting - Ellie and Joel flashbacks (They are what kept me playing through the story. Negative: - The Story (literally why I play the game, I won't go into many spoilers other than Joel is killed early and in a garbage way with no closure) - Character development ( many characters make choices that make no sense such as the ending) - The entire portion playing as Abby. I honestly hated every second of it, and only wanted to get back to Ellie and Dina.

TLOU is my favourite game in the last decade and top 3 in the last 20 years. It had decent gameplay, great graphics and especially what made this an outstanding game is its story. Take that away and it would become average. TLOU 2 may be a great game for those who didn't play the first, but for us who did, this was a HUGE disappointment. Waste of time, money and ruined your credibility.

Well it didn't suck The game was a emotional rollercoaster from wanting to Abby burn in hell . To the end where u are just screaming stop fighting. Gameplay 10, visuals 10 , story 9.5 (for obvious reasons).

This game buyers are >75% straight male between 15-35. Most of as like or do not mind kissing girls, that was not problem at all but this feminist and LGBT staff we are not into it so much to spent money on it, we will watch someone play, why because game do not gives as a choice. Also game play is nice, world is painted extremely good, but inventory mechanics are so unreal, WTF ? So in the and Nice game to watch? But as a movie. Not recommended to buy, but you should watch one time.
Awful - truly awful Given how amazing the first game is I was so excited for the next instalment. Maybe that’s part of the issue, it made the fall even harder. Complete misstep and from naughty dog ? Come on! all they had to do was give this to any group of testers and listen to their honest feedback. Complete Joke of a story Characters are beyond clichè Waste of £50!!
Jogo para mim está perfeito em tudo, apesar da história não ser a esperada, mas temos que entender que é a visão do diretor, assim como nos filmes. Ao podemos traçar a história como queremos mas sim aceitar negativamente ou positivamente o lado que o diretor imaginou e buscou passar. Adorei o jogo, gostaria muito de uma Parte III
The gameplay and graphics exceeded my expectations, the storyline may not be to everyone’s taste but don’t let that put you off this game is Incredible
Good graphics, and good technical foundation. But the story ruined everything... The characters are not reasonable in the most decisions and the ending is total crap. In total disappointed of the game...
TLOU2 is a waste of time & money. At times it feels like a pretentious movie. At other times it's an LGBT misery porn simulator. It forces you to do some things in the game and later shames you for doing them. Besides the identity politics & woke SJW stuff (there is a lot of this. It even has a pointless and disgusting sex scene), there are many more things wrong with it. - the story is swallow, makes no sense and has some plotholes (for example, infected people living in freezing temperature, with no food) - the main theme ("cycle of violence") is dumb and poorly written and full of contradictions - some characters are very unlikable, others act like idiots - the ending is bad and unsatisfying. In fact, it might be the worst ending to a video game I have ever seen - some of the dialogue is pure cringe - gameplay is repetitive and the game is way too long - the jump button is overhyped and plain stupid - no multiplayer The only redeeming part are the good animations and the graphics. However, there seems to be a masive downgrade when you compare some scenes to what was shown in trailers. And I'm not a fan of Ellie's face being redesigned (it's not about her growing up, she looks weird even in the flashbacks). Hell, they made even Marlene uglier. Why? Also, I guess the music is pretty good but it's imposible to enjoy it when you are annoyed because of the plot. To sum it up: repetitive gameplay, great graphics, horrible story. And since this is a STORY driven game, I can't give it anything above 3. Sadly, I must say I'm very worried where the gaming industry is heading to. Don't play this game even if it's free! TLOU2 is a disgrace to Sony and the entire gaming industry! Game journalists should be ashamed for their false advertisment!
I'm so disappointed with this game. Mediocre game play, terrible storytelling. Couldn't care less for the characters. I was racing through the story just to be done with it so I can get rid of it. Of course "professional reviewers" felt compelled to "love" this game afraid to be called misogynist or not PC by people who don't even play games. I'll never play another game from this franchise and I'll wait for the reviews for the next naughty dog game before buying it. I'll not make the same mistake again. This is the Terminator Dark Fate of video games.
Great game and best experience ever Graphically is gorgeous Gameplay is awesome Story so dark and tragedy Yeah I wouldn't like to see LGBT eliminate But still it's so awesome and fun, one of the best game you may play One thing they improve among all other thing is the puzzles And somthing they removed, it won't rowing the experience but it was coll to see and that is the reflection of the light... In TLOU 2013 when the light hit a red wall the reflection in the edges are red unlike TLOU2 this cool detail has been removed
Didn’t like it, bad story, bad character, I’ve waited for so long to play this just to find that they don’t care about gaming and they force a political agenda

Good.. but ending could’ve been better. Joel didn’t deserve a death like that, they should’ve started with Abby if they really wanted people to sympathise with her
I'm only maybe 5 hours in but this game's a real snooze fest so far in terms of actually playing it. So far I've explored a few small areas, killed a handful of zombies, and gone through about a dozen highly scripted story events and cutscenes. Call me old fashioned, but I prefer my zombie games to be a bit more like resident evil. Just give me a person with some weapons, and let me find a way to survive in a hostile environment. This attempt at a prestige TV style story line just means less time actually playing the game. That said, the story is fine so far. I don't have any issues with the actual writing and story content. I just wanted to play a video game. I rented the game from Gamefly so I'll keep going for a bit and update this review if it opens up and I change my mind. For now the story is interesting to keep me going but the gameplay needs to get more engaging pretty soon. The graphics are really impressive also, even on a base PS4 with HDR enabled.
Si ya ves mi puntuación, ya sabrás de que va mi comentario, arruinaron mi saga favorita, gracias
After 7 long years this is what we get. i was still hoping the leaks had not shown everything and well it didn't but it was worst then i thought. Game play is the same with very small improvements winch is sad after 7 years. gun play still very clunky. The world and scenery are great. However The Last of Us is about its story. in the first game we had the beautiful tell of a father a daughter of finding hope and happiness even in the darkest places. in this game all u get is revenge bad people bad you are always a villain in someone else´s story. Well G thanks for bringing nothing new. Not only does the story not payout it drags u along with characters they previously made you hate so its hard to root for. After just 1 hour with new char Abby i was desperate to move along but no it drags for more than 6 hours of game-play and storytelling i don`t care and was half seeing how i could kill this character the best. The use of dogs to make you feel worst about yourself by learning their names and non aggressive side to make u feel bad is essentially what this game tries to do is make the player feel bad for the linear story THE GAME DEVELOPERS MADE. is not a good way to go about it i must say. Especially cause they made you root so much in the first game for Ellie and Joel. All in all a great disappointment and what it feels like the downfall of a once great gaming company
Visually stunning, very enjoyable gameplay. Deeply thematic, though devisive story. The pace change at the Abby switch does slow things down in terms of pacing.
Ok. So. My biggest complaint. This game had clunky movements and it’s open world/linear mix didn’t mesh well for me. I expected more for a late generation game. Particularly one that is a sequel to such an amazing game from an earlier console. The next issue I had was that I went through 3 days as Ellie and then the same 3 days as Abby. I would have appreciated jumping between the two through each day, so when I got to day 3 I was finished. I felt like it broke up the narrative a bit too much. Lastly. I really did hate they killed Joel. I felt like they could have found a better way to do the revenge story. Like have everyone in Jackson get killed except Joel and Ellie. Then Joel and Ellie go on a vindictive journey. It could have brought out all the same points, but Joel wouldn’t be dead. I mainly didn’t like this because Joel made the first game. I didn’t enjoy playing as Ellie in the first game. I didn’t even care much for her character. I cared for her even less in this one. I also really didn’t appreciate playing as Abby. It was ok. Just not the most fun. She did some terrible things and was a terrible person. All I wanted was for her to die in the end. Lastly, the game play wasn’t different enough from the first one to keep me engaged. Now. Admittedly all these issues, except for the first one, are all minor. I just think that with my expectations, and all the minor annoyances I found in the game, that I just struggled to appreciate the game in the same level as some of the critics. All in all not the best game to close out a console generation. Ghost of Tsushima is better as a whole. Albeit not necessarily in every way.



This game sucks. I'm a lesbian and I'm thrilled that ellie is a lesbian, but the story doesn't make sense and it was super disappointing because the first game was awesome. I just think this game tried too hard to do something no one asked for. If I wanted to watch horrible sad movies where the dog dies that is what I would do. This game is trash dont waste your time. Its manipulative and just pisses you off.
O jogo é muito competente no aspecto gráfico, isso não há como negar. Entretanto parece que o jogo tomou um rumo completamente oposto do primeiro game ,que era um jogo sério , com uma história empolgante, algo na minha concepção nunca visto em um game. Já no primeiro DLC do game o estúdio foi reprovado pelo público, narrativa sem sentido , que aparentemente foi feito para mostrar que a personagem era lésbica. Há algo muito estranho neste game, fica bem explícito que o foco aqui é uma agenda política , ideologia de gênero , crítica a cristianismo , liberação das drogas , aborto, ataque aos conceito de família tradicional . Os inimigos do jogo são uma alusão aos conservadores que não tem a "mente aberta". A história não se arrasta, agora o mundo pos Apocalíptico se preocupa com a sexualidade dos indivíduos , as questões do outro jogo parece não ter importância. Quando aparecem momentos que a lacração é deixado de lado somos tomados por uma esperança que o joga vai volta aos trilhos, porém logo voltamos aos questão importantes como aborto, homofóbia. Decepção este game.
i was so hyped for this game 20 and something hours later i finished the game and all i can say is this is one of the most disappointing games i have played this year and here why pros: - the visuals looks great every detail and everything is just wow - sound is top notch from the music to the sound of the zombies - voice acting is really good -the world building and map design is really up there cons ( oh boy here we go) - the sheer amount of plot holes is just laughable - story writing is trash - forgettable characters - the way they handled some characters is just ridicules - AI is still stupid af - ending was a piece of hot garbage -antagonist is basically useless and gets away with way to much - devs basically destroyed everything they built in the previous game as you see this game is divided into two parts gameplay and story the gameplay of this game improved so much and props to them but the story just took a deep nose dive and ruined the whole franchise and because the story is the important part because this is a story based game the game just fails miserably in conclusion (and it really pains me to say this because the first game was a 1010) this game deserves a 4 out of 10 i do not recommend this game just play the first one and end it there in the end all i can say is LOOK HOW THEY MASCARAED MY BOY
it was boring to me. i disliked playing as a character i hate. the romance felt so rushed, joel's death felt so rushed and this game has big plot holes.

I tried to like this game i really did. The graphics are very beautiful. They remind me of the old game but improved. It breaks my heart that the so called writer took the direction they did with this story. To watch such a beloved franchise be destroyed just to push a LBGTQ and SJW ideology is criminal. If i were an investor in this company i would sue them. Its one thing to have a progressive story that is inclusive of peoples sexual preferences but to kill off the white straight father figure of ellie just to push their garbage agenda is disgusting. You could literally feel the palpable hatred of straight white men when the trans thing bashed his head in. The game play was kinda outdated in some ways and in some ways it seemed vastly improved. I love that they expanded the area size. I would like to see them bounce back and hopefully learn their lesson from ever doing something as irresponsible and unfair to their loyal fan base again.
Anyone who loved the first game and isnt an insecure d**k will love this too. Those giving under 5 should be ashamed of themselves and take time to sit down and think about what kind of person they are. If you dont agree with the politics, the size of Abby's arms (jesus christ) etc you have to give it at least 5 for the game play itself.
Gostei do jogo mas não tanto como do primeiro! Este tem uma boa mensagem, vingança é um caminho solitário, leva-nos a pensar nas nossas acções durante o gameplay mas tem algumas falhas na história. Muitas personagens, pouco desenvolvimento. Este jogo podia ser feito em duas partes (ou dois jogos) e não juntar tudo em um só jogo. Tentaram ao máximo distinguir-se ou separar-se do primeiro jogo que a narrativa foi um tanto apressada (como escrevi, muitas personagens, pouco desenvolvimento deixando alguns buracos na mesma), mas também abre "portas" ao jogador para tirar as suas próprias conclusões. No todo, foi uma boa experiência, mas não é um 10/10. Para mim é um 8.5, não dou um 9, devido as falhas da narrativa e personagens sem grande ligação ou desenvolvimento. No entanto, não entendo o ódio de muitos para com o jogo. No "final do dia", é apenas um jogo! Atenção ao detalhe e grafismo no seu melhor, gameplay inovado quando comparamos ao original mas um pouco mais do mesmo e a narrativa ficou um pouco aquém daquilo que esperava, na mesma, não é tão má como tentam passar informação! 8.5, como já escrito, é a minha nota! Mas cada um tem a sua opinião. Uns irão gostar, outros odiar e outros ficarão indiferentes. É normal.
I honestly don't understand why this game is getting so much hate. I think that the story is amazing and extremely engaging, although a little too long, and I don't understand why the death of Joel causes fans to hate this game. Though loved by the fans, not all the in-game NPCs have to love him. He is not a hero, he is an anti-hero at best. He killed so many people for his personal gain of keeping Ellie alive. Yes his death is incredibly tragic and depressing but it would not make sense to keep him alive no matter what. Overall, the game is amazing. Story and Game play are both really good, especially the stealth in this game. The biggest let down of this game is the truly terrible editing. The problem is not what happens in the cut scenes, because the story told is really good, but the order in which it is shown to us, that is the real problem. The second half of playing as Abby is just terrible because we can't build a connection to her because we know how all of this is going to end. There was a lot of potential which made the game shine in the first half and the ending but the second half sadly is just terribly paced. However, this does not mean the game itself is "a disgrace to the first one". It is a lot of potential badly executed for half the time.
De grand jeu narratif en 2013 à une écriture frustrante et incohérente en 2020 : pourquoi ? Parce qu'histoire et narration viennent alimenter à tout prix le thème de la spiral de la haine, sans prise en compte de la psychologie des personnages précédemment construite, alors même que le jeu s'assume comme suite et continuité du scénario entamé. En effet : 1/ Ellie était prête à se sacrifier pour sauver les humains ; elle tue désormais sans distinction ni empathie des gens qui lui laissent la vie sauve. 2/ Joel était prudent et extrêmement méfiant des autres survivants ; il fait désormais confiance aux premiers inconnus qu'il rencontre. A-t-il subitement oublié son vécu... ? 3/ Construction narrative en flashbacks inutile : des flashbacks dans les flashbacks, vraiment ?! 4/ La résolution de la contamination n’avance en rien… 5/ Trop de "casual talk" là où il pourrait y avoir des propos intéressants et profonds sur le contexte. Pour le reste, l’intelligence artificielle, l’infiltration, le tir, les interactions entre ennemis sont des éléments vraiment très réussis d'un jeu qui reste trop fermé dans ses environnements pour en exploiter le plein potentiel.
I wanted to play as Joel or Ellie not a weird looking Abby wtf. I don't like it. I dont feel like im in a World full of Zombies its like a videogame to teach me Gender Diversity. But even Ellie has changed stupid.
Game is generally good but the story ruins it. I gave it an honest play through (5 times to be exact) to see if my opinion changed but still i don't care about Abby at all. It has nothing to do with anyone's sexual orientation/preference either, i could care less. Graphics and music are both great, the game play is much like the first with a few things added on but nothing that really stands out to me. What really grinds my gears (and probably most fans of the first game) is the lack of Joel and Ellie time. I thought the beginning was cool with Joel and Tommy but why not let us play as Joel with Tommy clearing out that area and then having "the talk"? Some bad ass brother tag team action would have been a great way to start off the game. We hear about how awesome they were from other people but never see/experience it ourselves. There are so many things they reference in the game that would have been cool to actually do. For example, if the game progressed with Joel and Ellie in Jackson first and showing their relationship growth would have been smarter. Them going on patrols together and showing how Ellie has grown in both combat and wisdom would have been a great platform for her character and fans to experience the changes and the Jackson community more. During this time, the truth about Ellie and the Fire Flies could have been executed. Learning how to swim, playing guitar, etc would have been great to see and would have given players the opportunity to play as Joel if not for just a little bit. I am not saying that Joel had to live in the sequel but at least give him a proper ending. If they really needed to push Abby's character, then have Joel and Ellie on a paired patrol finding them and having one last battle together where Joel dies protecting Ellie from Abby. This may not be the best alternative but damn it would have made me feel better at least and we see this over and over again in the first game where Joel consistently puts Ellie's life before his when there's danger. Getting beat to death from a golf club is great writing?! Also Joel, Tommy, and Ellie's characters are really different from the first and to be honest i don't think Joel or Tommy would ever put themselves in a situation where they are outnumbered with strangers and giving out personal information about themselves...where was this in the first game? I've heard some say that they got softer in Jackson but then freaking show me that! There are too many "implied" things they are counting on you to just get but the story is so forced. Joel's death was purely for shock value, if they needed a reason for Ellie to go on a rampage then the relationship with Dina could have been better developed and she could be the one that died since it was Ellie's love interest. She was pregnant and they wanted to start a life together so that in itself could have been enough fuel to make Ellie go nuts and then the scene with Joel and Ellie "you think i'd let you do this on your own?" would have been possible. Joel goes on the quest for revenge with Ellie (Ellie as the main) and then his death could have happened (still at the hands of Abby where the truth is revealed). If Joel had to be the one dying in the beginning then have an Ellie and Tommy combo going. That would have made so much more sense since they are two closest people to Joel. Tommy knows he cannot stop Ellie, why not go together so at least Tommy can watch over Ellie like Joel did. This would also be something Joel would have wanted and to be sure Ellie would be safe when he's gone and his brother is probably the only person he trusts besides Ellie. Yes Tommy went first in hopes of ending it before Ellie could get involved but again he knows Ellie will follow. Seems like everyone in Jackson is aware of Ellie's habits (even the mayor who lets her go anyways). This would have been sweeter with a chance to play as both Tommy and Ellie while developing their characters for the audience. Flash backs of both their memories of Joel would have been way more meaningful as well. Now onto the issue with Abby, "who the f*Ck is that guy?" - Conor McGregor. Okay i get her story and her thirst for blood and how she mirrors Joel but in all honestly i don't care and being forced to play as her so the audience sympathizes for her is a really risky thing to do. Playing as the killer of our favorite character just doesn't sit well through the entirety of the game and honestly i wanted Abby to die somehow. Why am i playing more than half the game as her?! A quick 'this is where Abby is coming from' would have been enough but her whole story and side characters that we cannot attach to is just too much and forced. Now it feels like they need to do this with any sequel (hopefully not) since we need to see everybody's perspective now. I heard ND say "why do we care so much about fictional characters" but isn't that how you make money?
História ruim e mal feita. Ser obrigado a jogar com a assassina do Joel é horrível. O final é terrível, parece que o único objetivo do jogo é cuspir na cara dos fãs do primeiro jogo. O gráfico e a jogabilidade são bons mas a história destrói tudo.... o diretor é um mentiroso quando disse que os vazamentos eram falsos. Lixo total
I absolutely LOVE the 1st game, but The Last of Us Part 2 is a huge let down. To be fair, The Last of Us is such an iconic and beloved game that's very tough to follow up with a good sequel, let alone one that surpasses the original. Just like the Matrix sequels couldn't really match the 1st movie. The Last of Us Part 2 is objectively a better game in technical terms. It's got better graphics, better motion and performance capture, bigger environments, better AI, more refined gameplay (at last, a dodge button). In other words, it's got great production values. Yet it fails miserably where it matters the most: the game experience, and the lasting impression it leaves on players. First of all, let me address the big elephant in the room. The game has caused controversy online due to seemingly promoting a progressive political agenda. Yes, the game portrays some LGBT characters alongside straight people, but their presence is not an issue. The game's real issues are far more fundamental. But dare I say, I've had enough of this agenda, especially when it's not applied so "innocently". If Neil Druckmann includes LGBT characters in his game because the story demands it, fine by me, but please don't take advantage of LGBTs so you can call yourself a "progressivist" and potentially open Hollywood's door later on. We know how things work. The original game had a simple yet powerful story punctuated with memorable characters and events. The sequel is a shallow tale about hate and the cycle of revenge, with no memorable characters. I won't spoil the game's plot, but let's say the game's narrative focuses on a dozen characters, and as a result loses all of its focus. By the game's end, I had little to no impression left on me. Another thing that hampers the game experience, is the non-diverse gameplay and the game's length. You traverse the environment, explore an area, and either you loot everything you can or have to dispatch an enemy team, and repeat for 30 hours or so. Puzzles don't exist. There is no trail-stealthily-someone mission. There are no time-limited events. There is no hunt-an-animal-for-food mission. There are no mini-games. There are no secondary dialogue trees to actively pursue, only those you can trigger with the triangle button. Even the fact you can play the guitar is under-utilized. They introduced a few new monsters to the infected roster, and only the Stalkers are a great addition, they gave me a few good jump scares. But at some point there is a horrible boss fight with a creature that reminded me of some recent appalling Resident Evil games. I understand that Naughty Dog wanted to try something different with The Last of Us Part 2, but frankly they didn't deliver a good experience. It can happen even to one of the world's best games development studios which has released multiple great games in a row. Last time they released a game with a lacklustre experience was Jak II on PS2, or the 1st Uncharted on PS3. I'm sure Naughty Dog will re-organize themselves and their next game will be a return to form. But The Last of Us Part 2 should have been much better than it is.
I don’t see the hate from playing the first one I think this is still great I figured it was going to be dark with no happy ending, if you were looking for a happy ending maybe don’t play it

Me parece un muy buen juego,tanto historia como jugabilidad,las criticas que ha tenido no son merecidas,y mas teniendo cuenta que la mayoria ni lo ha jugado,la historia esta muy bien hecha,todo el hate ha sido causado por tocar a ciertos personajes,pero eso ya es cuestion de gustos,no es razon para tirar hate porque si,mi critica final es un 9.

The sequel to arguably the most well recieved PS4 game offers new refined graphics which are absolutely breathtaking, whilst also giving the player more developed mechanics in the gameplay. This is probably one of the best games out there if you're looking for eye candy in games, from the scenery, facial expressions, level design everything is top notch. The game had several breath taking moments where the immersion was very alive. The performances by the actors must also be taken into consideration when reviewing this game, they truly did an outstanding job. However this game has major issues with the plot which brings my score down by alot. After only some hours in the game you're faced with a brutal act of violence towards a character which fans love, a character who they had built up an entire game by. I'm completly fine by them killing of this character but the way the character got killed off is extremely bad. This game severely lacks the respect for the characters we all loved. The game lost my interest pretty quickly after i realized i had to spend a huge amount of time playing as the character who killed Joel, Abby. I'm pretty sure the majority of the people who atleast played the first game disliked Abby intensely after she killed Joel, the thought of playing this character for that amount of time just bored me, i wasn't interested. The characters feel boring and i couldn't care less what happened to them. There was no connection like Joel and Ellie had, infact the best moments in the game were the flashback with Joel and Ellie. When these flashbacks were being played i thought to myself why they didn't just use what the first game did so well? There was so many other ways the story could have unfolded, it's just a shame that didn't happen. The story has some major problems with plot holes aswell that were very apparent throughout my playthrough. I've no idea what prompted Naughty Dog to leave everything that the fans loved about the first game. It all felt like a pitty revenge plot with over used violence and moments which tried to detach us from the characters we loved from the first game. If they had nailed this story it'd have been in my eyes a clear top score, everything besides the story was of very good quality. it dissapoints me to say that this sequel that i waited a long time for was just not what i expected. Positives: + Graphics + Acting + Level Design + Gameplay + Animations Negatives: - Characters - Lack of character development - Plot
Gráfico lindo, história ótima, jogabilidade excelente. Só os fãs do Joel não gostaram, Nauth Dog arriscou com a morte do personagem principal e quase se deu mal, eu gostei muito. Um dos melhores jogos que joguei nessa geração. Que venha Tlou 3!
Первая игра было лучше, а теперь мне осталось только потратить большое количество букв чтобы мне дали оставить комментарий... вообщем
This game improves on every aspect of the previous part and also makes the first part better and more meaningful, visually the best looking game of the generation till this point, level and gameplay design it's greatly improved upon the previous part for a smoother experience also improving and bringing new game mechanics to make that experience more realistic, on each aspect with great attention to detail characteristic of the studio, being a story driven game the story is wider and deeper than its predecessor, not complacent so it can convey what it wants to tell, transmit, make you feel and experience, it's not idealist, shows not to see things in absolutes, that not everyone is just a hero or a villain, that not every story has a happy beginning or ending and aboards things in more than one perspective to do that.
The hype for this game was very high. First installment was almost perfect in case of visuals, story etc. and the part 2 is also pretending to be as good as it's prequel except one thing: the story. Some narrative decisions were totally wrong for example how can you kill Joel that everybody loved with the golf club and force the audience to play as the character who did it?! For ten hours! I really liked the game, they improved mechanics, visuals and they,ve added some rpg elements like the half open Seattle area in the beginning of the game. It really looks like the next generation game but the story , LGBT propaganda and weird ending brings down the rating to 7/10. Hope you don't make the next game about Abby Naughty Dog. And my god it was so satisfying to be stealthy in this game.
Maravilloso!!! Una experiencia increíble. Me encantó la historia. Un título muy arriesgado que funciona de maravilla.Maravilloso!!! Una experiencia increíble. Me encantó la historia. Un título muy arriesgado que funciona de maravilla.
بازی فوق العاده در گرافیک گیم پلی و مراخل زیبا با محیط های با جزئیات بالا داستان سرایی جدید که از هر دو زاویه دید میشه داستان فهمید پیام بازی نشان دادن نتیجه گرفتن انتقام است که به بهترین صورت انجام شد من خودم دو ساعت اول بازی می خواستم دستگاه بشکونم ولی وقتی منطقی نگاه کردم و داستان پیش بردم گفتم این شاهکاری در داستان گویی ولی حیف سایت بیشتر از ۱۰ امتیاز نداره ممنون
It's very easy to get on your high horse and believe that your creation is too sophisticated for "people to get". That will make some people compelled to "get it", so they can feel brighter, or more open-minded than others. But there's nothing to "get". This game overstays its welcome by 15-20 hours. It's repetitive and extremely boring, trying so hard to shock you with one of the worst excuses for a story I have ever experienced in gaming. The sudden flashes of storytelling brilliance (the astronaut scene) only hold contrast to the bleak everything else. The devs have completely abandoned everything that made the first game the masterpiece that it was and filled this game with a lot of SJW stuff, for the sake of being edgy. Unmemorable, and even completely insufferable characters that you are forced to spend time with, and Ellie can easily make this list, too (I disliked her character arc just as much as I disliked Abby). By the end of this unfortunate 30 hours experience, I couldn't care less who dies and in which order. It is hard to believe that such a flop could possibly exist when you have unlimited resources, and top-notch talent on all frontlines of visuals, music, level design, and voice actors. But those things are never enough if there's no compelling story to tell, and I feel extremely sorry for the people that were overworked to create this game. You can put 10.000 plants and detail every piece of grime on a wall by hand, but that's not why we play games. And elementary school philosophy doesn't count as a compelling story. I regret every second I have spent in the second part of this game. I am extremely disappointed to say that. I will never buy another Naughty Dog title, as long as the current leaders stay in their place.
It had very good graphic and gameplay But an soap opera story. it was weak in making characters. It couldn't handle the prestige of the characters from previous game A very disappointment experience
I have to admit I didn’t enjoy the game quite as much as the first one, but not from any lack of quality gameplay or poor storytelling. The users giving this game a super low rating are just immature and frustrated that naughty dog didn’t do what Star Wars the force awakens did and play fan service, giving people what they thought they wanted- or they’re homophobic and can’t keep an open mind about anything. The story here is unmatched by any other video game out there and probably 95% of movies out there, but it’s just so heartbreaking watching these events happen to characters that you have grown to love. But that’s life and sometimes stories are sad- that doesn’t make them bad stories- they make you feel things. Naughty dog was in a unique situation coming into this game where we care so much about them and that could be a gift or a curse. This game would not have worked if it wasn’t for the first game where they had a chance to build that backstory. I laughed and I cried. By the time it was done I just felt shaken, but I’m pretty sure that’s what they were going for. I was left wishing things ended differently but again not because it was a bad ending, but because I just wanted so much more for Joel and Ellie...however this was an amazing game with ALL the feels...

Considero que es un buen esfuerzo para ser sincero no esparaba este final ni la muerte de cierto personaje importante sin embargo no lo odie ame su jugabilidad el diseño de los paisajes las peleas con el gordinflon son epicas en especial el jefe del hospital pero quede con gusto a poco espero que alla un the last 3 ya que para mi fue final abierto o por ultimo dlc
First, let's get the pros out of the way. This game has great combat and crafting mechanics, graphics is amazing, well polished environment and level design. Gameplay is very close to the first game but with slight improvements in some aspects. Most of the improvements can be felt when you play as Abby. She is like Joel but on steroid. Shooting, dodging, mele, she is like an unstoppable tank in this game. And I think I know why she plays very well, because Naughty Dog wants you to love this character. Why else would she be so powerful and with all the plot points to try to convince you to relate and feel empathy for her? But you see, this is exactly what's wrong with this game. Empathy for a character cannot be forced upon the players. It must be EARNED! Characters development need to feel natural. Plot points need to be logical. Choices should be given to the players to decide on what the outcome of the story. One word: Flashbacks? seriously Naught Dog? Master of story telling in Uncharted 4 and TLOU, decided to use a flashback to justify an important character action in this game. This is lazy story writing and simply cant be justifiable by just blaming all players homophobic. Now we all know fractions will be its standalone but nonetheless it is cut from the main game. So the $60 you pay for this game is gonna be less of a game compare to the first one. With the heavy weight on its shoulder, I am sorry TLOU2 simply isn't good enough. Also, it is just wrong to blame the players. Maybe you should try listening to their feedback instead of justifying for your own bad story writing. Please stop pushing agendas which is clouding your judgement and making good quality games. Be the naughty dog that everyone loves, instead of this emo, hate provoking teenager like Ellie in this game. You used to make master piece, Uncharted 4 remember? If you want the praise from everyone, you need to earn their trust again. There are some scenes which imo very unnecessary to be included such as the sex scenes and the execution scenes. They felt offensive and disrespectful to both the characters and the players. Take note on Ghost of Tsushima, they just announced a free multiplayer to their game...

i was one of those people that have been wating this game for so long, i played the original one in ps3 and replayed it in ps4 in short.... The good: the game visually is stuning, great, you can feel hard work from all people that designed and created the enviroments models for the game, the soundtrack is good, pretty similar from the first game but is really good. the bad: THE WRITTING, as a narrative based game like the first one was, and how this second part was advertised, the writting is really bad, not thaking advantage of anything of what could be and judt relaying all in "shock moments", characters from the first game feel more like devolutions of what they were, mechanics are ok, no really a significant change at all, and the interaction with the enviroment like puzzles and those are really most gone, and zombies what should have been one of the most interesting things to interact/fight are left really behind and barely given a chance to bewhat they were in the first game. the WORST: this game suffered a lot from what tried to achieve, poorly lgbt+ potrayal of characters, feeling more annoying that they could be, beside the ,ajor plat an ellie story, all of them have stories that have been better represented in other media, leaving them just as poorly writen characters, the "adult scene" was meaningless and really just worked as a "shock moment" that left me disgusted, and what is worst about is that it shows a double moral for what sony allow or no to show in games, basically censorship, censorship that other franchises have suffer for less graphic content. and finally the interaction between Joel and ellie is completely gone, it left really sour and bitter taste from all the flashbacks, and the treath that they gave to joel as character is one of the worst things ND have ever made poorly and wrongly handle. im really disapointed for all the hype that i had to bare to play this game. its Just sad
Finally got around to playing this. And can really understand the low scores. Game mechanics are fine and there are some creative novelties. But the story is the most important of a game in this genre and that’s where everything falls part. It’s poorly structured and character development takes a back seat to artificial “twists” that feel forced just for the sake of surprising the player. It’s hard to identify with any character in the game because none of them der authentic or human in their motives and decisions.
So many people think the reviews come from "haters" to **** on Naughty Dog" for the hell of it. But the SJW LGTBQ aspect of the game is perfectly fine. There is no issue there. The story is god awful. After so many years of waiting they bring out a washed out revenge story were Elie, after going on a murderous rampage to avenge Joel, simply decides is not worth it. The gameplay elements are almost basically the same and even thought the graphics are stunning it does not save the player from the disapoinment of the bad writing. Such a shame. Not recommended to buy for 60 USD, wait for a sale.
Loved the rich Story ( pulls on all emotions and isn’t afraid to push the boundaries of risks ), Gameplay and mechanics are excellent, amazing graphics. I couldn’t get enough of this game since it released, had to keep playing several hours each day and finished it.. replayed it on survival mode and made the challenge even more real ( played on normal mode to start with ).. Got the platinum after about a week of playing it each day I believe. One unforgettable experience and I thoroughly enjoyed each and every moment of it! Wouldn’t say it’s perfect but damn close.. I would like to give it a 9.5/10 but had to settle for the 9. Def worth buying!
The story choices sucked, instead of using the already existing depth of the characters, they killed Joel and pushed aside Tommy, new characters have zero depth, Ellie was turned into a punk with anger issues, most of the dialogues and the acting that comes with them were cring and awkward accept of Joel and Tommy, the game play was boring adn repetitive except few sequences, there was nothing original in terms of the game play, except the guitar thing, the puzzles ... were lame and so easy and they felt like fillers, the AI was terrible, you are literally side by side with the enemy yet they don't detect you, I didn't like the pacing of it, the music was not impressive, the graphics were awesome I'll give them that but we have already seen games with that level of detail such as DS, character design same **** from the old game, weapons and system management is exactly the same as the previous game, They didn't even explain the world conflict in any depth and I felt lost , it felt so one-dimensional. it was trash! Waited seven years for this, what a joke!!
The Last of Us Part 2 is on par, if not better than Part 1. From story, to graphic and game play, this is one of the best video games ever made. I finally beat it yesterday and had a night to sit and think about it. It has one of the best stories that challenges your viewpoint in many areas. I can understand why some people may be upset about certain choices but for the narrative they all make sense. The ending is thought provoking just like the end of the first game. I'm extremely glad this game was made and i look forward to another installment, if Naughty Dog chooses to stay in this world.
