Great Gameplay - Gorgeous Landscape - Terrible Story The first Last of Us is still one of my favorites, so this game was a 7 year long wait. Technically, the game is no different than other Naughty Dog games. Every gameplay mechanic is improved and built upon. I found stealth to be more enjoyable. Every encounter is different. It is a semi-open linear world, so there are multiple paths you can take where you might or might not encounter certain enemies. NPC (unlike previous games) have names and react when one of their fellow mates get killed. The game is gruesome and violent but that is to be expected given the current state of the world in the Last of Us. It's also amazing what Naughty dog has achieved graphically on a PS4 Pro where the game is running on 1440p@30fps. Unfortunately, on the other hand, the story has left me with a lot to desire. The first few hours feel rushed and questionable, however, I thought this would lead to an ending not possible without taking this direction. However, the ending has to be one of the worst game endings of a AAA game in recent memory. Character-wise it makes no sense. I don't want to post any spoilers so I will say this. "It can't all be for nothing" would describe part I. "It was all for nothing" would describe part II.One of the best games I ever played. Unlike some people who write reviews here and give it a 0, I actually played the game from start to finish. It does not **** on what they set up in the previous game, the story is an amazing and most logical continuation of the previous game. The gameplay is fun and improved feom the previous one. A masterpiece and GOTYThis game actually has superb gameplay In my opinion. It plays in a amazing world with a gorgeous atmosphere. BUT I can't give this more then a 3 because it is pandering so hard to sjw. I don't want a game studio to force their political views up on me. This has nothing to look for in games. That's the reason I won't give this game a 10 but a 3This game is **** vile. We went from extremely good pacing, amazingly well written characters- to suddenly punishing those characters for decisions they made in the first game, just absolutely **** unnecessary. TLOU was the greatest game in the last decade for me. This **** actually hurtsFirst of all I want to say the game looks beautiful and the level design is impressive that is the only reason I'm giving the game any marks at all where the game falls short is the story the whole story contradicts itself it's full of plot holes I mean how can you kill hundreds of people in your way who were not directly involved in Killing the person your seeking revenge for but then not kill the person who is responsible for killing said person The game doesn't really offer anything new sure you get a jump button but it's practically useless you get a Dodge button which is a welcome addition The weapons don't feel powerful I mean at one point I shot an enemy point Blank with a bolt action rifle in the head and she just stumbled back not very realistic at all ,The controls felt so clumsy and aged When playing as abby I felt more powerful as her melee attacks offers some nice hand to hand combat where ellie with her Switchblade basically feels like a nail file and does little damage you can pick up better melee weapons for ellie but they usually break within 2 to 3 attacks it's like naughty dog wanted you to prefer playing as Abbey Even tho abbey felt better to play with While playing as her it felt wrong I felt like I had betrayed joel who Id come to love so much in the first game, is this what they wanted I dont know I cannot help but feel like this game would have been as good as the first if Neil druckmann wouldnt have destroyed the story I feel like he has lost touch with the fan base and gone too political Naughty dog was great when Amy Hennig was leading the way it's so sad to see a great game franchise fall this wayIts a sad day, As a major fan of The Last of Us... I had good hopes for the next instalment. The Last of Us franchise is dead to me. How can one of the best games of our time be turned into an utter dumpster fire? well the Last of Us 2 gives us a perfect example. I actually don't know whats worse, the shill media critics being paid/bribed to give good reviews or the review gagging. Stupid story, super diverse characters with no story or belonging. This games a hard miss. And as such, don't touch the game, not even if free...As a fan, that still playing the multiplayer, I cant imagine what was going through Naughty Dog's team mind when they decided to write this story. Awful writing, New characters are so unlikable. And Joel and éllie just dont act like the same characters from the original. Seems like bad acting. But its the writing, the directing. I dont know what to say, waited 7 years for this, and as they killed the Uncharted series, they just killed this beautiful story. I wish I could get my money back.The Most disgusting game Story ever made.It's like a joke.Save your money guys and watch gameplay videos on youtube.to all those reviewers who gave this BS a 10/10 you are destroying the gaming community just for your own benefit and relationship with the devs to get more review copies and fame. the Last Of Us 1 was a masterpiece this **** is a disaster 0/10. Good not that much but good RDR2 had better. story? 0/10. Character development? 0/10. Gameplay? same as in TLOU1 with a Jump button.aburridísimo, quiero jugar un videojuego, no una película, dinero desperdiciadoThe game is such a mess on many levels the game dosen't respect the middle eastern and muslim countries since they included LGBT content and naughty dog know it will get banned in these countries, although the the first part was played by a lot of middle eastern and muslim gamers.I think this was intentional since the vice prsident of naughty dog is isreali.I've been a Naughty Dog Fan a Long time... so it saddens me to see this disheartening treatment of an established beloved franchise. Usually, when a developer makes a sequel... they do it to continue a well-received franchise and implement upgrades to gameplay / continue the ALREADY BELOVED STORY AND CHARACTERS. This game just seems like a story that derails most of the resemblance to the original. It seems to try and garner Violence points to cover this bad story up... with blood. RECOMMEND AGAINST!!This game is simply looking amazing. That's all, I hope they realize how important the story writing is to us now!!!! I really didn't enjoy the story also WAY too long playing Abby made me lose the touch with the main character. Terrible ending.This is truly not so good, not so bad, but very good,and very bad. The game is bizarre because of script.Not contents of books,but arrangement make mistakes. I don't like who forcing players to understand the story,nobody likes,so director lose the best weapon in TLOU: empathy. I could play TLOU again and again,for TLOU2…just once.And please,no part3+lvl disign +Gore +animations +Graphic's +Flashback's with Joel, but we not this story waited yeas. -horreble aim(not mine) -not much gun's and modifications -Ai like a Skyrim -logic and motivation characters -Elly killing machine but regret killing one woman WTF? -EBBY very boring and cliche character and 10+ hr so boring gameplay -unlimited ammo and cold weapon in gameplay catscene's -Feminism, Boys chill in camp's girls fighting... Well only pregnant women's so strong in game.the last of us 2 has a bad story good visual audio and gameplay new characaters are bad besides jesse and the the way they wrote his and joels death are terribleI’m here to say 1 thing. THIS GAME IS A MASTERPIECE! Game of the generation. Story is amazing, characters are amazing, graphics are amazing, plot is amazing, combat is amazing. This game is a 10/10 masterpiece, which we probably won’t see again in the near futureGraphics are great, sadly graphics don't make the game great. The story (which the original did great) is terrible. Gameplay is lacking heavily especially around stealth. What kind of game, motion captures and digitizes the lead designer for a sex scene??? Needless to say I got my money backNever played the first game. I never felt a connection to any characters. Gameplay felt clunky and the ending totally sucked. What a waste of 60.00 I won't ever play it again.... Even if you have a new game + why would I want to that over again. In comparison to the last game I played; days gone, now that game was fun as hell also violent but the story was way better and made me care for deacon and Sarah...Naughty Digs biggest shot and by FAR their biggest miss. The game plays almost the same as the first one because there are barely improvements given that the game was developed for 7 years. The story is incredibly bad with horrible writing and bad decisions after everything we did in the game after all the people we killed and after all the bad things abby did we just let her go?! wtf thats just stupid. Btw **** that sex scene it was so weird and bad. I guess after all that it in fact was all for nothing.As nuanced and subtle as a brick. This is what happens when your starting point is your agenda, and then you build your story and characters around said agenda.Dos cosas vengo a escribir, una más sencilla y otra no tanto. La banda Sonora deja que desear a pesar de que la guitarra es totalmente una locura y realmente te hace sentir como es tocar una guitarra, pero en el primero juego te acompaña durante todo el trayecto y se nota, mucho. Acá, no tanto. El tema más complicado y más obvio es que es duro que un personaje tan querido como lo es Joel se nos vaya así, o mejor dicho lo saquen así, es decir tan crudo. El juego no te da tiempo para llorar su pérdida para que te sientas con la necesidad de venganza. Avanzando y viendo el juego ves unos flashbacks que cierran un arco y un personaje de una manera sólida y en algunos casos devolviendo al jugador o espectador una posibilidad de desahogar sus sentimientos y el poder llorar como es apropiado su muerte. Al encarnar a Abby entendemos su punto y en algunos casos podes llegar a empatizar ya que conoces sus propósitos pero, realmente el final te deja a solo un botón de cumplir lo que queremos . El juego te hace sentir dentro, la trama, los personajes, la ambientación es increible pero realmente era muy dificil dejar a tu decisión la muerte de quien mato a uno de los personajes más queridos de TODA la saga PlayStation? Algunos empatizaron mucho con Abby, okey, no la mates si querés, pero otra gente (incluidos la mayoría) no lo hicimos, entonces el juego no te brinda la manera de desahogo, A PESAR de que el personaje de Abby me parece muy bien escrito, con objetivos muy claros y bien desarrollado, pero nada. Al fin y al cabo es un juego que sigue innovando y despierta muchísimas emociones y es algo realmente a valorar. Aunque esto último está desvalorizado en estos tiempos.Where to even begin, allow me to resummon all the anger I have felt over the last few months since the first leaks. This game completely destroys the foundations of the first game and disrespects all of the characters that we loved. This game is about endless violence, a disturbing amount with no player choice in the matter. This game makes Joel and Tommy seem like brain dead morons that forgot they survived as hunters in this world, who just blindly trust a random group of strangers and leave their weapons in another room to get locked into a room completely surrounded and say, "oh well we live right over here, I'm Tommy and this is my brother Joel. WHAT YA'LL ACT LIKE YOU HEARD OF US!" completely out of character for them. Forcing a dumb early death that reaks of god awful poop tier writing. Druckmanns self insert character proceeds to spit on Joel's corpse much like he is spitting on the fan base. No sane fan of the first game will ever like this garbage. Naughty Dog and Druckmann have betrayed all of us. This is a revenge game WITHOUT REVENGE. That's right folks. At the end of it all Ellie has NOTHING and nobody left and decides to just let Abby go, after getting her fingers bitten off of course. This depressing game ends with her not even able to play the guitar anymore. JUST WHAT!!?? Who is this game even for Druck? IF YOU HAVE DEPRESSION DO NOT PLAY THIS GAME. 0/10 pure tumblr tier trash.Fans of the series waited 7 years for a follow-up to one of the greatest stories of gaming. Would the sequel develop on finding a cure? Exploring the roots of the virus? New adventures with both Joel and Ellie? F*** no.Let's kill a beloved MC for shock value, demand players to play a shallow character (joel saves her life and she just shotguns and golfs his head in) that no one gives two **** about, plot the entire game on revenge after revenge and in the end force our character to do exactly what most players dont want.Plus there is so many plotholes through it all,and most character's are like "Hey it's me this is my story"(and one in particular just exists to justify a pregnency, then dies like a **** dog) and then we never see them again. One thing, that i did like story-wise was the relationship of Ellie and Dina. It felt natural and believable.I enjoyed that.But it all falls apart on this mess of a story Gameplay is awesome, but the story ruins it all.(After all it's a narrative story) Also, Sony false advertised JOEL in the trailers. JOEL appeared on many parts of the trailers pointing that there would be an adventure with the duo, but they fking replaced it with Jessee.Also the flashbacks of TLOU were altered to comply with this story. A mess of a game. How low did naughty dog fell. Worse that this **** game is the "critics". How dare they all give 100's on this mess? I wouldn't accept the rumor that sony pays for reviews, but in this case...it's more than evident.I waited 7 years for this? For Everything it does right, it goes out of its way to destroy itself. horrible dialogue and story, wasting characters and their potential, false advertising to trick players. Just ruined a once great franchiseThis was a let down. This is absolutely not worth the price. The only good this game has to offer is the scenery and that's about it. The first one wasnt that bad either. When you wanna make a game woke maybe start it on a newer franchise. Dont ruin one that was currently doing well. Get woke go broke.The critics that scored this game should be ashamed. 20hr into the game and I’m really struggling to keep going. The characters mean nothing to me. The combat is boring and I am yet to see any a.i improvements to enemies. The skill tree seemed interesting but it never adds anything to gameplay. Looking back now naughty dog have always been well overrated. Uncharted games are fairly poor, start quite well and after 2hrs it’s just a battle of boredom to get to the end. TLOU was great but I guess given enough chances odds are one has to come out goodGood Graphics and Good Performance is equal to 3 stars. Only 1/4 of the story is 1 more star. The rest of the game is disgusting with poorly written story (3/4), Agendas, and the disgusting way Naughty Dog designed the female characters.This game tries hard to kill the original game so it’s becomes an exploitation b-movie. Which I quite appreciate as a guilty pleasure, but movies are short, even the bad ones. This is almost 30 hours of repetitive and objectively boring gameplay just to show you an hour of a cutscenes. Positives: - graphics (there are real mirrors in the game, sick) - body parts are flying off and gore - sound design Negatives: - utterly boring gameplay - sluggish and clunky shooting because of a 3rd person perspective - the main plot is just dumb and exists for the sake of creators personal agenda - pandering to a wokesters - lengthWhere to begin? Last time I was this angry over a piece of entertainment was The Last Jedi and dare I say this is even worse? Joel and Ellie were the reason people love the first game. Their characters and their story was handled with love and care in the first game. This game not only butchers their relationship it completey throws it out the window in favor of this new Abby character. The marketing was deceptive and everything was in service of Abby. They might as well have killed Ellie when they killed Joel because this franchise is effectively dead now!In all my years of playing video games i honestly can’t remember a more boring and unexiteing way a company decides to kill a character off, and not just any character the main character and arguably one of the best characters in video game history. I could have thought of 10 more better ways to kill joel off. And then on top of that the campaign is boring and is missing elements that make you want to keep playing. I feel like i was robbed of $60 for not only a boring story but a short boring 30 hour story. I gave it a 2 because atleast the graphics look good but the story was awful and the gameplay was meh. I’m very sad that they ruined what easily could’ve been game of the year and could have been a all time great video game seriesThe game is a spit in the face of those who enjoyed the first TLOU, the creator himself (Neil Druckmann) said that if they did their job right, people will hate the sequel. Also, the game shows SONY's hypocracy on the censoring of japanese games: A bit of cleavage showing in an anime styled game will be censored but they don't care about full on mocaped anal sex if it is from their flagship franchises (yeah TLOU 2 features that).Una basura de juego, si lo puedes conseguir a 5 dólares o cambiarlo por algún FIFA lo recomiendo.A beautiful game, fantastic tale, with a stun Gameplay, simply love it. Best game in History.The best graphics on ps4 era, and gameplay and combat is great , the visuals and landscape and lightnings little details are also great, but a big BUT the story.... The story is like, I want to refuse that part 2 is the sequel to the last of us , I love the last of us so much that I wish that I've never played the game ,what Neil Druckmann did to the last of us is unforgivable and sooo unfortunate it would be a great game if the story was just simple and not try to be creative in a really weird and crazy way , but the fact is the last of us part 2 is out officially and unfortunately the story is taking the worst path that a last of us fan would've never imagined! It's tragicPoor story, lots of plotholes, gameplay seems dated, the first one is way better in all aspectsGames pretty good once I got past the part where the story took a 180 turn to where I wanted it to go. They really **** Joel’s character arc. And for what.The story is worthy of Bollywood. Pretty damn **** The first was a 9-10 this it's worse than a z-series movie. You complains about that and all the sudden you become an homophobic, great right? The devs are just a bunch of idiots.What a disappointment! I can’t imagine Naughty Dog not knowing what made the 1st game so special. For me anyway it was the banter between Joe and Eli and it just being a awesome story with amazing characters. The first game has such heart and made it feel truly special. There’s a little of this at times in the last of us part 2 like the flash back at the museum. Otherwise all the TLOUP2 is, is a revenge story. A revenge story with a lot of far left propaganda shoehorned in which is not my idea of a good time. I could care less if someone is gay, LGBTQ or whatever to each their own. Most people could care less who someone screw all that matters is if you are a good person but when politics be it far left or far right are shoehorned into a game they will only destroy half of your Fanbase if you push them as hard as this game does. I will not be buying any more naughty dog games!This game it's not to be compared to the first installment. This one is it's own beast of a game. Naughty Dog have accomplished another excellent installment to add to their library of already awesome games.I play the first last of us game and it was one of my favourite game of all time but this is disrespect to the fans who wait for long time to play the game the gameplay and graphics is out of this world but the story destroy everything Joel in the first game doesn't trust anyone and what happened in this game he gave his name to people he didn't even know for more then 5 min this is stupid and the ending is very bad so you kill thousands of people to let go of the one who kill Joel and kill Jesse and almost kill Tommy and Ellie gf i'm giving the game 7/10 only because of the gameplay but the story doesn't deserve even 1.2 hour into the game, Joel will be killed brutally with a golf club in front of Ellie by Abby. Then they force you to play as Abby for 10 hours. You have no choice. Throughout the game, you will be forced to make cruel decisions and then guilted into thinking you are a terrible being. You then play as Ellie angry and wanting revenge. When you finally get into the final fight..you let Abby go. I wasted $60 buying this garbage. I should’ve listened and believed the leak. 0/10I have been playing last of us 2 for 1 day and I am loving this masterpiece.Its gameplay is so immpresive and the story is very good and emotinal. Mechanics are great highly recommended game. **** haters are hating it because they read the story plot before month of the game launch Playstation players are not playing this masterpiece because they already know the story and Xbox and PC players are getting benefit of it and they are posting bad reviews about it because they cant play this masterpiece I am recommending dont think and buy it **** those hatersVideogame art at its best! This game has finally brought the gaming industry on the same level as any Hollywood blockbuster movie. In Fact, it surpasses.Игра супер, политическая повестка - отстой. Очень жаль, что столь малая ложка дёгтя портит такую большую бочку прелестного мёда..The graphics are amazing, sound is absolutely amazing. That's where it pretty much ends. The characters are empty soulless shells. The story is a massive plot hole with tons of plot holes in it. The wait was not worth it at all. Things are thrown in for the sake of being thrown in. Not sure who this game is for but it would look as if it's not for people who play games for great visual storytelling4/10 -------- THIS IS NOT A perfect 10 / 10 like the stupid butt licking critics say. F right off.. this game is NOT a 10/10 it's NOT a 9 or 8 .. it's a 4! A 4/10 !!!!! Visually it looks good and music is ok.. but the story.. the god damn story is so **** Have to give it a 0 to balance out the stupid score that critics are giving it.the story is a **** rally,kill joel is a bad idea and final scenes is a **** and abby is still aliveI did everything I could to avoid the spoilers, and the very little that did catch my attention, I made a conscious decision to ignore it. I even told myself that there was no way they could be true. I blamed trolls for spreading fake news, and yet, I can't believe how wrong I was.... 4 hours in, and I had to face the music. Everything they said was true. The story was dreadful, bordering on idiotic and it was nothing like what I expected from Naughty Dog. This wasn't a game to enjoy, this was a disgusting set of circumstances that a bunch of terrible characters found themselves. At it's worst it's just murder/revenge porn. This is arguably the worst game of this generation, and yet... conversely the most beautiful. I'm not even sure what they were thinking. Just a huge wasted opportunity to create something truly iconic and memorable. Instead, all I have is regret at the fact that I wasted money. Money that I could have spent on something more worthwhile.Excelente jogo ótima gameplay, história com um nível que te prende do início ao fim, tudo que a produtora prometeu ela conseguiu entregar sem falar que está rodando liso no meu ps4 fat, movimentação,expressões faciais perfeita e campanha incrível super recomendoI’m a fan of the original so the 6 is based on nostalgia and improvements to gameplay but the story makes the score form hitting the 7-10 range. The fact a sequel isn’t needed will also hurt the game a bit in my opinion, but let’s begin. I genuinely enjoyed exploring the city of Seattle, the notes left behind by survivors and flowing the clues to the next note till the end. Reminded me of Bethesda’s story telling through books and letters. I also enjoyed the story of Ellie but less so Abby’s story. After the disturbing way Naughty Dog (Druckmann) betrayed the fan base and killed Joel in a very contrived Brutal way (only for shock value) did playing Abby (Joel’s) killer make me just hate her, and being forced to play her and have Naughty Dog try and make her actions before and after work just falls flat. For the pros of the game, The graphics are beautiful, the melee combat is slightly improved the gore in amazing and being able to play in the world I loved from the original will always be fun. The cons, Joel dies in a unjustified way. The story is poorly written, mostly for Abby’s time in the story. Controversial topics being brought up like Lesbians (if for some reason people care) and transgenderism do seem thrown in at times for no actual reason and any attempts to go into those discussions are just mediocre at best and useless at worst. Overall 6 because.Game looks amazing graphic wise but the story just seems like a big middle finger to the fans of the original but is passed off as “art” and anyone who doesn’t like it is a bigot too many games bending the knee to push politics it’s too forced and doesn’t come off naturally all characters aren’t that likeable even the original ones sadly. Naughty dog has just added itself to the list off developers you can’t trust to pre order from for many I personally got a refund that’s going towards Ghost of Tsushima. Hopefully Cyberpunk 2077 can deliver a real masterpiece that deserves GOTYВообще не понравилось, скучнейший геймплей, такой себе сюжет, графика просто ужас, так это ещё и 4.500 рублей стоит! Если бы было можно, поставил бы -1The original was fantastic. This game has decided to focus its story around a social agenda. You play a man (trans) for part of it. Not just any man, but the one that kills Joel, the main character from the first game. It feels like they copied Walking Dead here. The worst part of all is the gay sex scene. How can this be in a video game?Only a few hours into the game and already disappointed at how laughably bad the writing is in this game. Not to mention the trailer literally teases the audience that Joel is a major part of the game. Nope. Dead in the first hour. I just want to forget this game.Absolut 100% garbage, it has absolutly nothing to do with the first story, the fact that Elli is Elli, a imune is more or less trivial and the only connection it has to the first game is the world and Elli and Joel, wich btw are completly different People, Joel isnt even in the game very much and Elli is not the same Elli, they just took the names to sell som sjw garbage. First game and that story is super trivial and means nothing, wich is funny seeing the game got praised for its **** story. Gameplay is medioker,, only Good things is the graphicA copy and paste game. The mechanics are the same as previous title. Only difference is the location and the characters. Story wise, it is a terrible script. Character design, developers shouldn’t let Anita influence the type of design on a character as per example: Abby. Not a good design. Also, I pity the animator who have to animate that explicit scene. I wish it was deleted from my memory.Gameplay mechanics are great - enemies behave so naturally! Graphics is absolutely awesome for currentGen! But please, stop pushing this SJW propaganda everywhere. I'm from Russia, I don't event want to know your political preferences, I just wanna explore post apocalyptic world, not all this sh*t. So, only 2 for now because of propaganda...One could argue that Game of Thrones Season 9 or Star Wars the last Jedi did it firs but no one mastered the art of taking a dump in your characters until the Last of Us 2 appeared. This is the prime example of how a story and the characters make up a game, no matter how pretty the game looks if its impossible to play like this game is even in the first 2 hours, but what really makes you stop playing and regret the $60 spent is when around the halfway through the story the game forces you to throw all the good experiences of the first game out the window and start doing things against your will. I refuse to take part and enable games to become political agendas.Great visual design but the story is totally ruined compared to Part I. I don’t know what happened to the director of naughty dog, this game does not deserve the seven years’ waiting by the Part I’s fan.Jogo muito bom, superou minhas expectativas. Caixistas em colapso tentando diminuir a nota do jogo, toscos.I just want to thank all these moron SJWs (not) for ruining such a great story and please, please game devs, stop trying to please idiots that are a minority and not only that, they DONT EVEN BUY YOUR GAMES!!!!I avoided myself from all the spoilers. All I knew was people were angry about the story. However, as I played the game I tried to think positively. Even at the early game where some 'big' event happened , I tried to have positive mind and progressed through the story. At the mid game where another huge event happened, I still, STILL, tried to think, 'okay let's progress further and then judge, maybe when I see the ending, it may change my scepticism'. HOWEVER, as I reach towards the late game it gets beyond tolerable and when I finally saw the ending, I was like, 'why did I commit 30+ hrs on this game'. The game mechanics, environment, face expression, etc are all fantastic and this is what pisses me off. Because all of that is completely ruined by one terrible story writing.I won't talk much but all I have to say:- 1- the story is really bad 2- pacing and characters are very bad not like the first game. 2- gameplay and graphics are masterpiece.Terrible sequel game ruined by a dumb agenda. This is not what fans of the first game wanted to see as a sequel. This do many moments in this game just didn't make sense to happen and felt forced just to push some dumb agenda narrative which ruined this game.The story, characters, are crap. The only thing redeeming about this game is the graphics. Such a far FAR fall from the first one. It is such a shame since I have been looking forward of this game for so long. Should have just left the game alone.I'm almost at the point where I want to stop playing and have been for a little while. Most people have already seen spoilers but I'll try and keep it short as to why I really take issue. The story: it's distasteful and basically makes an open mockery of everything I loved about the first game. Its not gritty and edgy/it's just outright discussing and carries no emotional value, just shock factor and that's about it. The gameplay is nice, polished from the first but nothing to make up for the main reason I waited seven years. This game is an absolute kick in the groin and its so disappointing, I'm not raging mad, just so disappointed that I think it best that I just trade in now and revel on what I liked about the first gameThe only thing nice about the game is the graphics. They look great. The gameplay is non existent basically because it's more like a movie and less of a video game. The story is terrible and characters do things that are out of character. This game should have never been made and characters have been ruined. I hate this game. I really do. Don't buy it. Worst Story ever. A middle school kid could write a better story.The gameplay is so good u cant expect any less from NoughtyDog however the story is so lazy and cheap makes u feel boared and hate the characters as jole for being stupid. After he took down the whole fireflies in 1st game the John wick style he got killed easily by some teenagers. WTFEste jogo é incrível graficamente. Jogabilidade excelente e história que prende. Certamente posso dizer que está no top 3 dos maiores jogos que já joguei..Искусственное растяжение сюжета, ЛГБТ пропаганда, левелдизайн полный отстой, Дракман насрал в душу фанатам.I understand why people are pissed with the choices the writers made with this game. I loved the first game and its characters as much as everyone and knew it was a game that was going to stick with me for a long time, if not for life. But I get why Naughty Dog went the direction they did with this game. In my opinion, the story of TLOU2 perfectly captures the tragedy and brutality of the post-apocalypse world they created. That there are repercussions for the decisions made in the first game and this game. Not many games (besides Telltale games) do that, show the perspectives of those who are hurt by the main character’s actions. Many people will disagree, but I kind of respect Naughty Dog for making these major story decisions and they probably knew it piss off the fanbase of this franchise. I’m not saying that the story is perfect, there is definitely that “political correctedness” that other people despise, I don’t mind some of it but there is a little bit too much here and it threw me off in terms of “jeez, okay we are in pretentious territory here”. Also, some characters make really weird decisions that can be out of character and don’t make sense disregarding the build-up of some tragic events. I can say that this game can get depressing and there is so many emotional moments with joyful moments so far few in between. Which might turn some people off. Despite these downfalls, this story was great enough to keep me going and keep me immersed. Again, like the first, it is a story that will stick with me. I think people should give this game’s story a chance. I had bit of a long section for the story part of the game because it is narrative-driven, but I should also speak about the gameplay and graphics. Combat and stealth sections are tension-filled and can be really challenging, which I appreciate. Naughty Dog improved in terms of adding realism to the combat sequences as you can get knocked down or flinch when you get shot, completely throwing your aim off. I played on the regular difficulty and I got my ass kicked a lot. Enemy human AI is pretty smart and will try to flank you, especially dudes with melee weapons. Moreover, the infected sections are still creepy and tense as always with some new enemy types to keep it challenging. I plan to play on the hardest difficulty to make resources scarcer, as I felt on the regular difficulty resources was never really that scarce despite what gameplay videos have said. They even added a feature where you make your own custom difficulty which is pretty cool. Lastly, the graphics are amazing, as expected of recent Naughty Dog titles, so good that your PS4 will sound like a motorcycle (IDK if that’s a good thing). The facial animations are on point in combat and in cutscenes, in particular the combat, the facial animations add so much realism if you can pay attention and adding to the brutality of it. The post-apocalyptic scenery can be really beautiful in most parts of the game. Thank you to those who read this whole review, I know it’s long, but I really wanted to get all of my honest opinion out on this game. I do understand all the negative reviews and why people can’t stomach the story. But if you’re looking to buy the game but are a bit sceptical, I’d say give it a shot. I really think its important to understand the context of the story decisions Naughty Dog has made in TLOU2.This is an amazingly good game, the story of the characters are all very well done. Sure, it’s not perfect because it has flaws but it deserves a 9 points smoothly. Those who directly pull down the game should be ashamed of themselves ....Кошмар , открытая пропаганда лгбт и феминизма мужеподобные девушки , не понятный сюжет. 1 часть шедевр была .The gameplay and mechanics are largely unchanged from the 1st installment being serviceable but basic. This wasn't as much of an issue then because the 1st was carried by the strength of its narrative but there's no such redeeming quality here. The leaks were true and there are as badd as purported.These user "review" scores for this game are just pathetic. At the time of this post, the game hasn't even been out for 20 hours and it has a rating of 3.5. It takes close to 30 hours to beat the game. Meaning people are rating the game without playing it. People are being biased and rating it based off emotion. The game is better than every other game in history that has been released so far on so many levels. To deny that is a strait up lie. It may not be perfect, but it is a technological leap in gaming. This game is a masterpiece. These ratings are deceitful and it's sad to watch.What can be said that already hasn't been said? The leaks definitely changed my mindset going into this game, which is unfortunate. I tried to avoid them like the plague, but some still got through. Let's get out this out of the way. The game on a technical level is beyond anything being done by any Dev out there. It is truly amazing that a PS4 is pushing out these visuals and the sound design is just amazing. On a technical level, my god this game deserves a 20 out of 10! Sadly, graphics aren't the only factor when playing a game. The story needs to be the glue that holds the entire game together to give you the drive to continue playing and this is where the game falls apart. I couldn't care less about Abby. This has nothing to do with her sexual orientation and everything to do with "WHO IS SHE?" Sure we get a little tiny glimpse into why she hates Joel, but comes on. I waited 7 years to play a sequel to my favorite game and the lead character gets killed within the first hour of the game. Ok, great, we are going to get a classic revenge story and with Naughty Dog twists, right? Wrong! We now go on an adventure that is way too long for its own good! The game is painfully too long and you start blowing through areas and skipping exploring because you just want it to be over. You don't even know why you are playing. Switching to play as Abby makes me dislike the character even more and then keep forcing you to play as her. I get it from their perspective and story telling and they were really trying to break the mold here, but it falls flat and there NEVER a pay off. Meaning, we are playing for nothing. You play a 30 hour game for nothing, basically. So basically we all waited 7 years for the most highly anticipated game of the generation and from the jump you have expectations smashed, forced to sit through a VERY long game not caring about half of it because we have no reason to care about Abby or her cause. We don't get the pay off we desperately wanted for Joel's death and it just comes off as lazy, forced writing to make a sequel. This game didn't need to be made from a story perspective, but Sony and Naughty Dog couldn't pass up this pay day. In the end, I came away so disappointed and this now has me questioning Naughty Dog games in the future. I get they wanted to have that GOT's moment, that Walking Dead "OMG" shock, but they didn't pull it off here at all. They gave me no reason to replay this game due to the length and again due to the fact that literally half the game does not need to be played, forces you to breeze through sections. Maybe that is the reaction Naughty Dog wanted all of us to feel, disappointment? Maybe they wanted to be different and tell us revenge is bad? Who knows, but the story is literally one of the worst and is such a drastic almost unsettling polar opposite of what made the original Game of the Generation.The game play intense at time with same playing formula from the first gameWith improved graphics. The story jump lines so much youLose track and it makes it hard to connect to any character at the end you don’t care about either Ellie or Abby, especially after Abby call Joule after he saved her life!This is the worst game in the history of games, maybe ever. These poor reviews are not the vocal minority. This is the opinion of the vast majority.The reviews for this game are fake and paid for. The story is pure and utter garbage, the gameplay is great as usual but it does get repetitive. Ultimately a disrespect to the main characters.Wow I literally have no words to explain how disappointing this game is. The story is uninspiring just a whack revenge story. The only reason for killing joel was to give us this sorry excuse for a sequel, how does a man who survived everything the world has throw at him for the last 25 years gets killed in the worst possible way ever. than the game makes you play as the person who kills joel for a big part of the game in order for us to feel bad for her and justify her actions of killing her. horrible story whoever though this was a good idea obviously didn't understand the story and attached fans felt with joel and ellie for it to end with joel being killed off in such a petty way its completely idiotic. I and probably many fans though that joel would die in this game but in a more meaningful way, protecting ellie or sacrificing himself, not for a disgraceful revenge story. the fact that they make you play as this character is pretty much the worst decision ever. I put the controller down uninstalled the game and returned it to gamestop. never have I ever wanted to kill a video game character more than abby and it turns out ellie doesn't even do it. yeah heads up ellie has no problem murdering about 100+ people to get to her just to let her go in the end. worst of all ellie literally loses everything, joel, dina and the life they created, she even loses her pinky finger and ring finger and cant play the guitar anymore. holy crap the girl walks into the woods and the credits roll. what a terrible ending for such a loved character this sequel defiantly should not have been made.Great visual style. The average gameplay. But the plot is terrible, this is an absolute abomination... seven years waiting for a great sequel and they create a ridiculous story like that. Change the screenwriter.Really disappointing. Graphically good but a game that has added pretty much nothing new to the original (gameplay) apart from an over convolution of sjw/pc story telling which basically destroys any story arc. The detraction from the story by woke politics throughout the game completely ruins any story telling and makes it unbelievable and unbearably bad...The Last of Us Part 2 is a masterpiece. People keep saying Joel deserved better. Did he really?! Joel was never heroic. We rationalized his actions in the first game and created a hero’s mythology for him because that’s the nature of video games. That hospital scene at the end of Part 1 was an act of pure evil. No matter how you cut it. That was the moment Joel went from lovable father figure willing to do anything to protect his “daughter” and the memory of his biological daughter to a villain. And the fact that Ellie reveals in Part 2 that SHE ACTUALLY WANTED TO DIE, makes it even worse. In video games the quest is usually to “save the world”. In The Last of Us Part 1 we ended up realizing we played as a character who at the end stopped the world from being saved in a selfish act (that we admittedly empathized with because we experienced the heartbreak of Joel losing his daughter and the incredible bond he developed with Ellie). That STILL doesn’t justify what he did. Not only did he murder a slew of innocent people, HE STOPPED THE WORLD FROM BEING SAVED. It turned the entire video game medium on its ears. Brilliantly. And words can’t describe how genius it was for Naughty Dog to give players the “choice” to shoot the doctor or not at the end. I always thought that was ingenious. But man oh man The Last of Part 2 let’s us see just how GENIUS it was. Violence begets violence, karma is cyclical, and no good deed goes unpunished. Whether we “like” it or not Joel had it coming. As does most characters in this **** world of human depravity where THERE ARE NO HEROES. The amount of emotion Naughty Dog was able to illicit from me with The Last of Us Part 2 is some sort of artistic miracle. The key to making Abby’s character work was she was actually the FIRST character to realize the destruction her actions was causing and decided to break the cycle. So by the end of the game I loved Abby’s character and wanted her to find peace just as much as Ellie. The fact that they pulled that off is astonishing. I love her relationship with Owen and the Aquarium sequence was an ingenious set piece that they used to perfection. That being said, they used those moments of serenity against us because the moment they made us have a “boss fight” with Ellie as the villain and forced us to choke her out is one of the most gut-wrenching sequences Ive ever witnessed. In a game of movie. First time in my life I was “scared” to press a button on the controller. I didn’t want any part of it. AND THATS THE POINT. The Last of Us Part 2 is the greatest deconstruction of violence and it’s consequences ever made. In any medium. Period.An amazing journey through the human condition. The blurring between the classic protagonist/antagonist roles was mesmerizing. A must-play for everyone out there. If you haven’t played the first one, that is a must for this game.Desde el primer minuto te das cuenta que estás tomando el control de un juego épico y maravilloso La historia historia es muy cruda , el personaje de Ello es quizá de los más trágicos dentro de una historia contada en un vídeo juego , lleno de matices y complejidades La historia engancha desde el minuto uno , la jugabilidad muestra avances claros , decenas de movimientos capturadossimply a waste of time, during the passage of the game, you feel like you were scammed, one could say that the graphics are excellent and others, but what they put in their efforts to that, it took everything from the story, which culminates in a disgusting way, and disappointing, please I hope they don't get this piece of **** out for the ps5, because they would be just wasting their moneyThe game is an absolute masterpiece. the gameplay is excellent : the animation are super fluid and smooth resulting in satisfying responsive melee and dodging and moving animations (crawling...) / the AI are incredibly realistic which further enhances immersion / the physics are indredible / the destruction elements are awesome/ the innovative motion matching animation system is done to perfection-same with the innovative crawling system (that's differnet from cod)-innovative sneaking between objects system that enables players to sneak between litterally anything resulting in even more immersive and dynamic experience and full control over the expansive detailed environments and parkour . this game further proves how naughty dog are masters of 3A games with masterful crafting of well excecuted masterpieces that remain memorable for ages . another ND Work Of Art 10/10 .Amazing scenery, atmosphere and state of the art visuals, only to be ruined by a crude political agenda, which lately seems to make its way aggressively into the video games industry. The story is trash. Shove your politics down your throat and keep them out of our games. We pay to leave this world not take it with us.Just finished. I wasn't sure where the story was going for a bit. But boy am I impressed with it. It did not have the hope/grief rollercoaster of the first game. It just made me feel dull and empty and profoundly sad at the end. But that was the point right? Vengeance is a terribly bad idea, yet completely understandable and supportable. Cycle of violence and whatnot. Revenge is how worlds go to **** Message received naughty dog. And thank you for this very fun game. P.s. Bit buggy sometimes :-/ never game breaking tho.Diversity in games and media is great. Blatantly forced diversity and identity politics in games gets you this product. Couple that with a complete lack of respect for beloved characters and a revenge story that any given person could come up with and you get The Last of Us 2. This company should be ashamed of themselves for treating this franchise and it's fans this way. At this point, I think that treating the fans this way was the point all along.The world you know is in ruins, everything is destroyed. But there is one hope, one girl, whose is immune to this virus and can start repopulatıng earth with chıldren who are immune to this virus as well. Hey this can save us! Well no, according to director Neil, this is not good enough. He decided to make our immune, only hope girl to a lesbian. First game was full of great story, details, characters. Now our dude Neil abandon everything and aim for one thing. Pleasing LGBT community. This game has one purpose and its about putting unnecessary LGBT propaganda into every corner of the game. No than you. I am not against LGBT rights but i will not stand and do nothing when political correctness comes for my favourite games. Go seek your shelter at netflix.Тоже самое, что и с Death Stranding - напалма на всех не хватает и на лайкеров и на дизлайкеров ))). Радует, только одно, что рыночные отношения никто не отменял - победит тот, у кого хорошие продажи. Им и решать. Многие игроки старой школы не готовы к изменениям в игровой индустрии - часть игр становится более реалистичными и аутентичными по видению их авторов (уж очень много опытных разработчиков стало в мире). Некоторые ААА-игры теперь не развлечения с "вау-эффектом крутости" и с приходом реализма, в них раскрываются свои нюансы видения авторов. Пусть решают продажи.Esse jogo é simplesmente fenomenal. Não há outro game em 2020 que possa superar essa obra prima, que certamente será o GOTY. Qua to ao userscore baixo, é coisa de caixista frustrado, jogador de grounded. Chorem mais!No words can describe how bad it was. Just why!! The first 27 minutes of the game they are acting as the world is normal playing in the snow playing guitar and of course a party and a kiss!!! As the first one in the first 27 minutes I couldn’t blink I was so afraid I will miss something if I blinked. Thanks for ruining a good memory and a good game konami did it before you and now you are following the same steps.This game is a trainwreck. A grimdark story can be excused in certain cases when the gameplay itself is fun but with TLOU2 the creators try to make you regret playing it. Never before have I seen a game trying so hard to make you regret spending your money on it and with the current global situation that is an idiotic philosophy for a video game. I honestly question the sanity of the execs who signed off for this game to be released. It is such a directorial self insert that it may as well be Druckmanns facebook page. From inserting a character almost certainly based on himself who spits on the corpse of the first game to adding parts with his religion and personal politics there can be no doubt that this game is Neil's fantasy or else a physical embodiment of his own arrogance. Who signed off to release this? From the original games heartwarming and brutal paean to the relationship between Fathers and their Daughters to a confused mishmash of hysterical modern political preaching and violence to the point of parody this game wants to be hated to make a point that even it isn't sure about. In places visually stunning but the animations at times leave a lot to be desired. The jump button is useless and the box declaring it as a feature in 2020 is ridiculous. To best sum up TLou2 we must compare it to the first game because it is an unashamed vendetta against everything that made the first game special. It is akin to tearing down a classic painting, burning it and then proclaiming yourself the true artist. I understand certain zeitgeists put deconstruction of a classic on a pedestal but this is just crude and bitter. Even the pseudo Kojima trickery attempted by the trailers was bought by nobody. The fans knew what was coming. The main point of my review is that hardly any of what is in Tlou2 needs to be in a video game. A good video game with a bad story is playable. A bad video game with a good story is acceptable. Tlou2 may have familiar controls to the first game but the game tries to guilt trip you for using them. A survival horror game that tries to guilt trip you for surviving is not worth the plastic its printed on. Do sports games penalise you for scoring? All in all the game sought to elicit a negative response and I hope it gets it because contempt for the fanbase should never be rewarded. The minute you veer towards that you fail as an industry.This game is a slap in the face to the gamers who made this company rich off their first, rightfully celebrated title (the first game in this series). They gathered a huge fan base off one of the best games of all time, and crafted the second to try and push a political agenda on that same audience using the TLoU franchise as the vehicle.. this game wasn't made to be fun. It was made to be a vehicle for their message and it served only to disgust people.The game mechanics are essentially the same as the first game, with slight improvements. The story isn't necessarily bad, just very poorly executed. Huge disappointment for a game that so many were looking forward to. I was going to rate the game much lower because of this, but the developers did a great job finishing this game under enormous pressure and despite the COVID-19 pandemic. Many titles released under difficult circumstances are buggy to the point of appearing unfinished. This is a polished AAA title, so that kept it from being rated even lower.It’s very atmospheric game with super graphics and characters. Don’t take into consideration 0 rankings, it’s worth to play and spend your time Perfect Face animation, movement animation, Graf is is one of the bestI loved this game, very brutal, gory, horrific, powerful. It really plays on your heart strings. If you have strong emotions with good empathy you'll have a good time with it. Sadly many people don't. OnThe Last or us part 2 is an amazing game with great story telling, graphics, gameplay, soundtrack. Not everyone will like this game and I can see and understand why, it’s way different from the first one but I also feel like people don’t give it a chance and they don’t even play it, they just hear the leaks. There is so much more to this game and the reason people hate on it is because of Joel’s death which yes was extremely sad but it doesn’t make the game bad. The game isn’t supposed to be a happy game it’s supposed to be a sad and unsettling game and it’s really good at making you feel that. You can feel and see the pain in Ellie as you go through Seattle looking for Abby and the rest of the WLF. Yes Abby is a **** but besides that I have no complaints about this game, and even though it was wrong you can’t blame Abby to much because as much as I love Joel and was sad to see him go the way he did he did kill her father and hurt the rest of the world to save Ellie so Abby feels that pain too. Anyways the improvement on everything in this game from the first one is amazing. Just because Joel died the way he died doesn’t mean the game is bad! 10/10! An emotional Masterpiece!The Last of Us Part II I've spent a lot of time contemplating a review of this particular game. I don't usually review games in general on any forum - thus this being my first Metacritic review - some will claim "review bomb" but this is not the case, please hear me out. The first installment of this game was a masterpiece, it featured lovable characters that many people (including myself) became attached to, just as in other games like Tomb Raider, but with the added emotional character attachment that oft doesn't develop, or at least not on such a deep level in video games. Along with the great narrative and exciting adventure that made TLoU so great. When I heard ND was making a TLoU2 I was excited to continue this adventure with the beloved characters I had become emotionally attached to, however this game took a turn for the worse early in my playthrough as the series' main protagonist fate was revealed. I wasn't a fan of the new characters, and it certainly wasn't what I thought I would be playing when I pre-ordered The Last of Us 2. As I was playing through I often thought to myself that this should have been a new IP, maybe named "Vengeance" or something rather than marketing it as TLoU2, it seems kind of like a bait and switch to me. In addition the gratuitous violence was on a new level, I'm sure this was what ND was going for but I wasn't a fan of it. The game play was somewhat improved over the original while not being top notch, I was not unhappy with that aspect nor was I unhappy with the visuals or the environments as I prefer more linear games. The animations were top notch, however I did feel the game was too long, it could have been half the play-time and achieved the same end result. About half way through I was ready for the credits to roll. I can't help but feel as I stated before that this should have been a new IP, which I think would have had more positive reviews, but a TLoU game this is not thus the low review score. Here's my take: Graphics: 9/10 - very good Environment: 7/10 - very good Animations: 9/10 - top notch Mechanics: 5/10 - good enough for the type of game it is Narrative: 0/10 - not good, not TLoU Characters: 1/10 - I barely remember their names let alone like them, other than Ellie Play-time: 3/10 - too long Gore: 0/10 - excessive and unnecessary Marketing: 0/10 - misleading In conclusion I will just say this, I'm disappointed with the game and ND, you're better than this! And I look forward to more masterpieces like Uncharted, but I'll probably not be buying any more TLoU games in the future.Poorly written. The dialogue is bad, Joel and Tommy are not credible in their roles (not that Joel sticks around much) and Abby's whole gang of rag-tags are insufferable. The humiliating way Joel dies is an insult to his character, the first game, and the fan base's intellect. I just won't fall for such cheap attempts at emotional manipulation. Joel is reduced to a mere instrument for justifying this badly designed revenge plot. And in the end, they still try to make him the bad guy. The game wants you to think there are more deep themes at play but there aren't. They did it for shock value. The characters are just puppets, servient to the plot and scarcely have any motivations of their own. At least it's fun, right? Not unless you enjoy dragging yourself through 25 hours of bleak slow-paced cut-scenes, with unlikable characters you can't even relate to. It's gonna pay off in the end when the story is supposed to go somewhere and make some sort of point, except it doesn't, and you forgot about it anyway because you got tired of stabbing people's throats over and over and over again. It's a social commentary about violence or something like that, you know? I think? Murder is bad, okay?Really fun game all i can say is play the game for yourself don't listen to the bad reviews from posting this the game has been released for 8 hours and 21 minutes yet people are saying they've completed a game that takes 25/30 hours to complete so don't listen to the bad reviews they are just people trying to vring down the gameeverything its ok in this game except the story its sucks!! if the last of us was a movie i still ok with it, but the last us is a game, player have put effort for it, what's the point of playing this game, if the game it self doesn't have it?This story is **** **** .Joel is the reason people play this game and you kill him in the first hour of the **** game!?Worst of all you get to play Abby the one who killed him for more than half the **** you Naughty dog 7 years just for this **** this biased reviewers too with their fake 10/10This game ruins everything the first built up to. Like everyone else has said, the graphics are amazing and the story sucks. The dialogue is ok, but this game suffers from terrible writing.I can only comment on the story rather than my experience with the game-play at this stage because I watched a nearly 9 hour play-through from Gamer's Little Playground. Upon reflection I do not think I could have played this game and enjoyed it, as a passive experience it worked and there were some amazing moments, the emotional roller coaster of a Revenge Plot at it's best. However if I was an active player controlling Abby after witnessing what she did to one of the best characters in all gaming, I would not have been able to play further. I want to give a negative score because of the wasted opportunity to see Joel & Ellie triumph over all obstacles. However as I continued to watch and see the flashbacks of Ellie's and Joel's relationship it was amazing. I enjoyed witnessing Ellie's quest for revenge but was left feeling empty by the ending (I assume this is what was intended) but to spend the entire game seeking for revenge but to let Abby go was a poor decision on the part of the writers, one of many in my opinion. So in short I understand why Game Journalist gave this such high reviews, but I absolutely understand why it is getting review bombed now.TLOU II have a great gameplay and graphics, however, TLOU used to be about the story and this one lack every basic point... Its forced, its badly written and it disrespects its own characters and for what i wonder... It was a huge let down...i liked the first half even though they killed my fave protagonist! but then **** goes downhill even more i didn,t like abby and they tryed to humanize her like oh wait she helps these kids and **** i want to like this game and somewhere i still do but neil you **** up! i liked the gameplay and the atpmosfeer it looks so real but the story is not good!!! and this is coming from a huge the last of us fan and that ending didn´t make sense like really bruh.Graphics - 8/10 Gameplay - 6/10 Story - 2/10 The constant violence within the gameplay was boring and feels really outdated. The storytelling drops to a new low. The game feels like a collection of inconsistencies and bad ideas. Additionally, the original story was never about Elie. it was about Joel, the loss of his daughter and the connection he makes with Elie as he tries to be a father figure to her. This game forgets all that and goes off in a very strange direction about revenge... it really wasn't the enjoyable experience it should have been. I wish I had waited for this to come on sale in 6-12 months.Fantastic graphics and decent gameplay are completely over shadowed by the garbage story. What Naughty Dog decided to not only do to the characters but what they did with the heart of the game is pure stupidity. The first game was a bleak, dark world with a light of humanity at its heart. This game just uses beloved characters to ram a cult ideology down your throat with zero humanity or heart aside from one flashback. It’s done with malice and hate, ending with hopelessness. All this game served to do for me is to insure I’ll never buy another Naughty Dog game again. These aren’t bots leaving bad scores, they’re actual people that buy games. I’d also bet a good portion didn’t buy the game but you know what? I bet they wanted to. That’s why they’re angry.politics in games is never a good thing the last of us was excellent this here is a sequel in name only keep your opinions to your self and just make a sequel to what was a really well written first entry joel was a fantastic character elle was ok i actually thought joels daughter was a much better character at the start of the game and answer this for me how can critics review a game and only be allowed to talk about the first half of it ??? this game is sjw politically correct rubbish that might sound petty but it's a rehash of first game with a poor story and more hollow action lets be honest the combat from the series was it's weakest aspect naughty dog have ruined this series update 10 hrs in its just a massive. Leap backwars the only thing I have like is the open world section the dodge feature is terrible just a massive let down the last of us 2This game just killed of the whole plot that part 1 had been going between the bond between ellie and joel,just for them to kill off this character in the most dumb **** way,they even changed his **** personality,he was uneasy about any stranger yet in p 2 he decides nah everything its good lemme go with them,then trans senator Armstrong kills him and its the most pathetic revenge story,also why is there a character that looks like Neil and **** Armstrong? This game is just a bad expensive joke and every so called "reviewer" and "gaming experts" should **** off and let us the gamers review the game instead of blatantly lying to us their customers.Oof where do I start? Well the game is hot garbage with forced Identity politics and an agenda that is forced down your throat. Unlikable and uninteresting characters and a storyline written like a fan-fiction by an angry and confused teenager.The gameplay is pretty outdated and it barely improved since the previous game. On top of that- it turned out that all the leaks were true and the game was false advertised in the trailers and commercials. The game looks graphicaly pretty good but it doesn’t matter because you have to torture yourself with 30 fps. 10/10 Ign? haha the User score shows you the real and only rating that matters here people. Verdict: DO NOT BUYNeil drunkmann SuBvErTeD my expectations so hard that I hated everything good about this game. Killing Joel is not why this game is bad but the way they did it. Disrespecting the protagonist of the first game who is a veteran survivor for 20+ years for the sake of being just a shock factor and nothing more. The gameplay of this is copy and past from the first one, but now you can run-jump, run-smash and crouch. In conclusion, Abby good Abby smash. I give the adventures of abby part 2 a 2/10They kill off the best character for she hulk and the gameplay get stale very quickly.Is sad what the did. The ending blows and the story suckthe game had huge potential, ooc characters and plot holes damaged the story telling heavily, the game drags a lot, gameplay is stale and lacks creativity, one of the strong points is the environment and the graphics are amazing on that field nothing to say but good things. People were waiting for something close to the first game but this was not it. Didn't have fun playing it 2/10.Excelente mecánicas de juego, la ambientación es una maravilla y los gráficos parecen de mentira de lo hermoso que son, la historia hubieran algunas partes que me disgustaran como su final pero aun asi se me hizo disfrutableThe Last of Us Part 2 game is great in every category except it's some part of the story. It has very little good moments in the story, overall the story and narrative of the game is REALLY GOOD if you really like Dark genreThe developer has put really hard work on this game, I have only issue that they gave us false trailer to promote their game, the game is good otherwise. Its a revenge story and both sides played their part and it eventually ends well, Beautiful graphics Beautiful music Story is good a little stretched thoughI'll start by saying that from a technical standpoint what they've managed to squeeze out of 7 year old hardware is phenomenal. The soundtrack and the fluidity of the games animations and character movement are top shelf also, however sadly for me this is where it ends. The story is incredibly poorly written and the ending made me question the whole point of it, and not in a good way. The treatment of some of the legacy characters is infuriating because of how they act completely differently from the first game. Joel and Tommy seem to have suffered from the worst case of amnesia recorded in human history and this is completely out of character and makes zero sense as they would never act the way they did in that certain scenario. Some of the dialogue used in game made me roll my eyes in disbelief ("Bigot sandwiches" and "Brainless brother duo") as its just bad and ultimately cringe-worthy. The newly added jump button is implemented badly and seems to be there as a filler but the combat has improved from the first one and the newly added vertical scenarios make some combat situations interesting. Crafting is identical to its predecessor with the addition of a silencer that can help greatly during battle although the bow is still the stealth weapon of choice. Sadly though in my opinion this game pales in comparison to its predecessor for its storytelling and character development and that's a damn shame. I really can't recommend this game for anything other than its visuals and audio but as we all know it takes more than a pretty paint job and a nice song to impress some people, myself included.Часть игры за Элли хороша. Но часть за другую героиню это просто жесть. Без блевотных порывов на неё не взглянешь. Да как вообще можно было создать настолько нелепого героя! Прилепили женскую башку к мужскому телу вот и всё. Вторая часть игры не просто на 0 из10. Она уводит оценку в минусThis is an absolute abomination. They butchered the story and it is clear character assassination, Joel is nothing like he was in the first game, makes a very stupid and out of character mistake that real Joel would never do. They went for shock value... so many disgusting scenes. The graphics are downgraded compared what they originally showed and the gameplay is still mediocre, this product has nothing to offer.The graphics, sound design and gameplay are all amazing. Beautiful scenery. 10/10 They way 'you know who' killed Joel pissed me off. ND should have made him sacrifice his life for Ellie in the end instead of beating him to death with a golf club. A disservice to fan's of the first game. Completely dragging them through the dirt for what? Write compelling story archs for new characters and leave the existing ones alone. That's why I dropped it to a 3Hugely dissapointing story, takes much beloved characters and ruins them. Joel is laying low and yet goes around telling everyone who he is....where was his carefulness from the first game? He just stopped caring it seems. There was a million ways to have his name known that didnt involve him telling everyone who he js. And Ellie....the ending is abysmal. They took two much beloved characters and took a steaming dump on them.Game full of sjw bullsh***t, with a story that makes any fan of the first game disappointed, the only good thing of this sjw garbage is the graphics and gameplay.Ignorar todo el odio que tienen este juego, es la gente que ni lo a jugado que está llorando por todas partes , una por qué es solo se la play y otra por qué les da una rabia ... yo llevo 5 horas y me está encantado muy recomendable a todo fan de juegos single playerThe game looks. And feels bad. The characters really bad written. Joel deserves to die in a better way.Not a bad game, not a masterpiece. Stealth, level design, audio, and graphics are incredible. Too much downplay between actual gameplay without any character development. Story is flashback fest. maybe if the scenes were placed chronologically, it could've told a decent story. Story is disappointing. But there is lots of good in this.Played it for the First Time and already i have seen many plot Holes and unlogical Charakter decisions. For example: right before Joel gets Killed, they all are in the Same room. Tommy should have Seen Abby behind him with a Shotgun pointing at Joel. Camera angle doesnt Show, but Tommy should have Seen it.People are just bombing this because they think they will make a point about something. The game is good over all, I have actually really enjoyed it, and the parts people are pissed about really isn’t that bad. Great over all game, but it is definitely a game that you have to play and decide for yourselfI never knew how hard it would be to convince myself to continue playing a video game. I look to video games for fun and enjoyment. This game was a major letdown and had me angry so many times. Wasted potential. Please do yourself a favor and skip this game. I want to pretend this doesn't exist and the first game is the only canon.A gameplay em si é basicamente igual a do primeiro só que muito bem mais melhorado, mas também não ficam atrás os gráficos, pois melhoram bastante e com uma boa exploração + cenários não repetitivo. A história é bem fraca comparado ao primeiro, além de certas cenas forçadas e momentos que esquecem completamente como o personagem realmente é o fazendo agir de maneira trivial(Tipo a morte de Joel que foi bem sem emoção e ignorando que ele já mais confiaria em um estranho). Gameplay: 9/10 Gráficos: 9.5/10 História: 5/10El juego es una delicia jugable, así como portento gráfico y técnico, pero hay algo que pesa más que todo esto, y es que esta secuela no era necesaria. No es necesario crear la secuela de un gran juego simplemente por interés político y propagandístico. TLoU2 tiene el peor guión jamás escrito, sin sentido y forzado. Se creen muy transgresores por acabar con ciertos personajes como lo hacen y dar protagonismo a un personaje salido de la nada y quien nadie quiere, y para más inri encima: "tia, la venganza es super mala tia". En fin... Esperando con ganas a Gosth of Tsushima, que espero que en este no metan su mierda propagandística.Good gameplay although its kinda outdated and really basic, amazing graphics and cutscenes but all of this doesnt cover up the mess it really is and the bad story, feels like acquiring all the infinity stones just to not snap it, bad revenge story... didnt enjoy any bit of the story only 2 characters are interesting .... and they are not the mainjust a horrible story waste of 7 years all for her to not kill the badguy and they torture you by making you play the bad guyFunny that somehow, this is the most user reviewed game to date, despite the completion trophies on the ps4 showing that just over 10% of players have actually finished this game at present. Too many people reviewing this game without even playing it, all because some leaked footage goes against their political views.Amazing game dont listen to all these people bombing the rating that haven't even played the game! Gameplay is top notch, graphics are stunning! If you understand the world there in and the story its a work of art! MasterpieceGraphics? Awesome.. gameplay? Was fine as well. Story was very poor and this is the major factor in gaming. Also can they stop pushing agendas in gaming? This should be plain and fun, dont force things on people. Highly dossapointed.Strong graphics, mediocre gameplay, horrendous story arc with a sprinkle of agenda driven rubbish. Do not buy.Disappointing. The game is boring, the pace of the game is not working for me. The SWJ here is extremely annoying.Why naughty dog? Why? So you took all the care and love you put into the first game, and switched it for a stupid plot full of hate and bleakness. BS revenge story with no pay offs in the end.I think the game unfortunately highlights the worst in people, not because of the game itself but because of bigoted responses. Reading some responses including on Google, It left me almost in tears to think how much hate is out there. The game is a 10. Thanks naughty dogI will try to be short. All the bad reviews this game is getting is 100% because of emotionally retarded people that got too attached to last of us 1 and hate different type of storys. Dude get over it, you didnt get what you wanted but its definately a masterpiece just as the first one. The story is well told , not sure if I can say that better than the first one, it's a good story about different things. The gameplay is amazing and better than the 1st one. Everything is just soo well made it makes you feel you are playing a movie.Sensacional... Emocionante.. difícil conseguir parar de jogar... Viciante.. melhor jogo que já joguei. Quem realmente jogar vai ser maravilhado por um mundo detalhado e hostil com profundidade na história que te faz sorrir e chorar em diversas ocasiões durante a gameplay.The last of us part II is a bad game it does not do ellie or joel justice. The gameplay is improved but the story goes in the wrong direction.And with this one game, big name journalists (IGN, Polygon, VG24/7, Eurogamer etc) if their reputations in recent years weren't already badly damaged and reduced to the court jesters of gaming journalism, their fate is sealed by a once loved franchise. How did it all go so badly wrong for The Last Of Us 2? Visuals: one of the few redeeming features, the visuals are very good, coupled with sound effects, the animations make killing enemies and such hold more weight than before. Motion capture of faces and lip sync are no issue, all done well as is the voice acting. Sound effects: Again not where the game faulters, the music; often ambient or acoustic is typical of apocalyptic narratives nowadays, for instance The walking dead series. Voice acting is mostly believable, and weapons etc haven't been lazily done. Gameplay: this is where things start to get a tad shaky, the gameplay is reminiscent of the first game a decade or more ago, it's not fast paced action, there's different pacing mixed between some exploration and scantily clad puzzle solving that's weaker and more basic than the first game. Mostly linear sections where you're encouraged to use stealth or distraction to move past or take down enemies. The formula though ok is a bit dated even with all the nice visuals and animations. Storyline: And this is where it all falls to pieces for different reasons. Firstly, what was the first game? An endearing father/daughter like relationship through a dark and hopeless world, with moments of humour or light shone in from Ellie and the few loveable characters. No agenda, no desperation to gain brownie points from certain social activists or groups. Just a story anyone can get behind and enjoy. What has this game done? It's for the most part distanced itself from that winning formula, no attempt to build upon or improve it, one of the most beloved of two characters feels the ramifications of this. The new characters aren't loveable and interesting this time around. The storyline boils down to a cheap soap opera, and the awful direction it goes, the cringe that befalls it, the destruction of a lovely chemistry between two great characters that people simply wanted to see built upon. It's all gone to pave the way for a social justice agenda, for the gain of brownie points, for multiple gay but somehow also bi characters with a bonus diversity character. And it's a colossal disaster. Sarkeesian being involved along with the questionable new director (Druckmann) were a big red flag, all but confirmed by various leaks and studio employees apparently being removed for questioning the bizarre story direction. There's also a distasteful and appalling scene I won't allude to for spoilers sake that appears to involve Druckmann (the game's now director) himself, or a very bizarre likeness to them; as placed within the game as a character. This scene also highlights Sony's appalling hypocrisy on censorship of more innocent nude in other titles, not even sex scenes like this. Then before the review embargo, 10/10 from already questionable journalists, with the knowledge Sony strictly prohibited much of the game being reviewed; namely the parts that players were worried about. But it turns out most of this was all true, and the game does have pretty awful, agenda driven story, that tries to hide behind the guise of a cheap revenge flick porn. The original game managed to make Ellie's sexuality feel very natural, no LED neon arrows above it, and not a main feature of the story and game, just purely natural design choice. This game manages to make every LGBTQ/SJW topic feel as fake and forced for brownie points and pandering, as Katie Prices chest. And it really detracts from immersion, throw in the poor storyline, shallow characters and somewhat dated mechanics, and you have real heavy fall from grace. There isn't even and choice given at key moments, you're forced to watch it painfully unfurl. The best option is to keep the memory of the first game and leave it there, don't soil it (and soiled it will certainly be) by playing this disappointment of the this gen of gaming. Verdict: Don't let this £50 disappointment destroy the great memory of the last of us 1, keep it's agenda addled and paultry story telling away from you, and maybe Naughty Dog, developers and journalists will realize this same formula of forcing unnatural elements into games for agenda's sake, will simply destroy a company.You people are crazy to rate this game a ahitty score. All you people want things in the game to end your way **** off! This **** is real and there is no Cinderella ending in a post apocolypse world. GtfoOne of the best game of the decay It is a Masterpiece The ultra high guality gameplay Ausome soundtrack Best looking game The most relistic graphics a begining of the next genThey have ruined such a great duo of characters for shock value and a revenge story that's daft and unsatisfied, forced a character that we knew not in the previous game and expected us to like her and see Ellie as a villain The did my Boy Joel in dirty and disrespect him. Such a shame as the first game is very near to me. I do not recommend buying it , if you see it in a few month as a second hand below 20euro then go ahead ither wise not worth itAll style, no substance. The idea of violence being a viscious circle is handled really poorly, and isn't exactly new. It conveys a middle school level of philosophy that is as shallow as it's narrative.No MP? I am very sorry but I am so disappointed in this Story. Technically game is okay and the gameplay is just like the first one but the story is a joke. I am sad that I bought this game and we had to wait so long for this worthless game.worst game of all time. worst game of all time. worst game of all time. worst game of all time. worst game of all time........Similar to how modern mainstream media has devolved into a circlejerk of unlikable journalists discussing topics that no one cares about or asked for, gaming journalism also has also become completely irrelevant to actual gamers. TLOU2's story and characters are absolutely terrible and you will not enjoy this game if you have half a brain. It has good reviews because modern gaming critics have absolutely no idea what gamers actually enjoy or want.Graphically it looks nice, gameplay is improved but the story is completely awful and wasted $70 on this garbage game. The fact that you Kill off Joel in the first 2hrs of the game it has made me not wanting to play the game no more and i have deleted the game.Terrible story. Sorry to see the developer ruin one of their best franchises. The only thing that people love about the first game was the story, and here they missed it big time. So the result is a bad game that you may still play but won't enjoy it nor that you will ever remember the story or characters. Nevertheless amazing graphics that you’ll appreciate.i just wanted kill who kills joel why noughty dog whhy? i was waiting this game for years. but still good game for not fansThis is Amazing experience and no it's not a game u want to play to relax or have fun with. But if u just wanted to play more of Ellie and Joel go play the last of us remastered. It is it's own game and is one of the best interactive media of the generationWhoever is putting 0/10 for this deserves a slap to the head. Keep the politics and BS out of this. There’s a reason obvisouly to anyone with a brain that it’s a 95 metacritic score, one of the best games ever made. To put 0/10 because your mad that Joel died is just embarrassing. It’s the best game of the ps4s generation and I’m in awe at how good it is. GOTYExcelente! Diferente de tudo, viceral e perfeito no level design. Uma história que cresce e te deixa curioso para mais e mais a cada momento. Supera o primeiro em todos os aspectos. Uma obra para ser curtida e digerida por todos. Game obrigatório, um dos melhores da geração e de sempre.TL;DR: You can pass on this one, watch on youtube if you wan't to know the story. ======================================================================= Great graphics. nuff said, One of the best looking PS4 game. Gameplay, its the same with minor improvement from the original game. And after you play it for 20 hours, it become boring and tedious. AI still dumb Story, well its revenge story, bad one that is. Compared to the original game, this one feels unlike the unique "human" side of the post apocalyptic story the original game had. And this game even try to drag the playtime to agonizing hours of playing character you don't know and probably don't care at all. All i want is the dynamic relationship between elie and joel which -fortunately- i still can enjoy through the flashback scenes. Overall, i feel disappointed, i wish the leak aren't true, i refuse to beliefe it from the bottom from my heart. They throw away what i love from the first game and give me cringy coming of age revenge story. Mediocre naughty dog, mediocre. Gameplay 3/10 (nothing new, same old thing, generic stealth mechanic) Graphics 9/10 (One of the most beautiful PS4 game ever) Story 3/10 (This score for the flashback scenes) Replay value 1/10 (Play it once means you done with the game, hell you dont even need to buy the game to enjoy the story) Verdict 4/10 - I just wasted $60 for experience i can enjoy from letsplay youtube video.Naughty dog has deceived us all. The game plays exactly plays like the 1st game, brings nothing new except for the “jump button.” And guess what? The jumping mechanism sucks. Naughty dog confirmed ellie was the only playable character but half way through YOU HAVE TO PLAY AS JOELS KILLER. The shehulk and her friends who kill joel, they force you to play as her. And the ending!! It makes zero sense!! Ellie kills all of abby’s friends and thousands of others to get to abby and guess what? When she finds abby they had a qte boss fight. Yes, the final boss fight is a QTE!!! She wins the fight and lets abby go after she had a flashback of joel. The end. Oh this game has some serious sjw propaganda and cringy moments. If u dont like sjw politics, STAY AWAY!!Im really not pleased with the last of us part 2 it's really destroyed the first game meaning of struggle and survival. Killing our characters after everything that they went through like it makes no sense. I keep telling myself that they shouldn't have made part 2.Kill joel to catalyze character development and then the climax of revenge is terrible. I could have liked it if the revenge was played out but it felt hollow at the end. Gorgeous graphics though but that plot is terribleThe Last Of Us is in my top 5 games ever made. Part 2 is the opposite of what i wanted in a sequel. (and to be honest a sequel was not necessary in the first place) Regardless of the political motivations of the story, The writing is just bad, There are several plot holes one of which is the backbone of the entire story. it's just incredibly lazy writing. There are several new characters none of which are particularly likable and some who are straight up detestable. Gameplay wise, not much has actually changed from the first game, despite what trailers had led us to believe. Above all, the main problem with this game, is even describing it as a game. Calling it a game suggests there is some level of enjoyment to be had from playing it. When in reality The Last Of Us Part 2 is a thoroughly unpleasant experience all round. I wasn't even sure how to rate this experience. a 0 might seem like i'm just another person trying to "troll" the game (a term seemingly used only when people disagree with your personal dislike of something and a way for them to try invalidate said opinion) but it came down to this. Is there ANYTHING about this game that i feel would make me want to go through "playing" it again? would i recommend it to someone who might enjoy it even if i didn't? sadly the answer to both of those questions is no. The Last Of Us Part 2 is poorly written, with no significant gameplay changes, but above all is simply not a pleasant experience to slog through. Fortunately my old house mate works for Sony so i didn't have to pay to "play" this game.The story is disappointing the new characters are not interesting in any way with no back story to know them better the way joel is dead with a golf club is just disrespectful to the players and community of TLOU I’m really sad to see one of my favorite games of all times get ruined like this.Good graphics decent level design that's about the only positives of the game the story has so many plot holes they time jump years to fit the new narrative and the ending is so lackluster same old revenge story that doesn't pay off & to anybody that's still interested in getting this game I'd recommend going pre owed that way you can get your money back if you don't like itSeems to me the development team actively go put of their way to make sure identity politics and sjws are all over this game....shame because the world created is amazing and the gameplay can be really fun at times. However story decisions and direction makes this quite disjonted from the original game.I waited 7 long years for this game. Tlou 1 had such a beautiful and emotional story that I instantly fell in love with the game and I waited such a long time for this sequel, but I can't believe this is what I was waiting for. I just can't accept this as the second part of that beautiful game that I used to love so much. Niel Druckman I can't believe what you have done to my most favorite game, you only deserve to be insulted.Outstanding production values, superb acting and gripping story mixed with fantastic gameplay makes this one of the best games on PlayStation 4. Incredible sequel to the original that builds upon the world in new ways to deliver a generation defining title. The gameplay is evolved from the first game in new directions and feels amazing to control. The environments are stunning to look at and explore. Character models are photorealistic and evoke complex emotions. This story builds upon the original in fascinating ways that question the nature of revenge. Melancholic, beautiful, terrifying... this game explores every shade of the human soul. It’s an emotional rollercoaster from start to finish, Naughty Dog studios simply deliver in every way!I truly loved the feel of playing this game(all the love to the grunts of Naughty Dog). But I did not love the world I was trapped in. I maybe emotional, but I know this game isnt more than a 6/10. Again, I truly love the passion that the core of ND puts into these games and it shows. But what also reveals itself is maybe some leadership issues. This comes from a passionate fan of ND.My disappointment is immeasurable, and my day is ruined. How Naughty dog managed to ruin a beautiful story with unnecessary propaganda is just beyond me. The characters are unbearable, story doesn't make any narrative sense whatsoever. I wonder if the writer of the game was a complete idiot. Even fan stories would have made much sense than these incoherent mess of story telling with pointless and unlike a le characters. The game play is nothing much to brag about. Slightly modification from the first but I never played the last of us for its game play. Stay away from this game. It's worth not spending any money o. ThisPoor continuation of a great story. Killing Joel and not avenging his death just to let his killer go sucks. Also Ellie going back home just to find out her new family is gone sucks. Game play is good just about the same as the original. My only problem is killing a character just to kill a character and have no conclusion to his death. Dina would have been a much better character to kill and give Ellie a reason to avenge a death and spark a side story to allow you to play as Joel to go an try to stop her.Este juego es una OBRA MAESTRA, de esos videojuegos que salen 1 vez en una década, con la impresión que puede convertirse en el juego de esta nueva década, como ya fue su primera parte en la década pasada.Good lord. This game is incredibly depressing. Mind you! There is a specific horrifying scene that was not included in all the spoiler talk. Beware going in.Disgusting! Pure disgust for Naughty Dog, Sony, MUSO and most of all all you fake media outlets for your bogus reviews. Most of the world is sickened by all this crap being shoved down our throats!This games was falsely advertised they tried to make people think Joel was in it. The few lines he had in the trailer were actually said by other characters... they made him look older and had him say stuff in the trailer to make you think he would be in it for a while. I won't say too many details but i put spoiler in case people felt what i said was spoilery. The narrative is bad. The lack of choice is bad. The characters don't learn. And when the player has learned revenge is bad and you want to make other choices you can't. And they just beat you over the head with all the bad decisions.The low ratings are really unfair, I but most haven’t even touched the game. I’m about 10 hours in right now and the story thusfar is amazing and so is the gameplay. But i’m of the opinion that we shouldn’t judge a book by it’s cover so a rating of someone whom has played an hour of the game isn’t really fair is it?Naughty dog treated beloved characters like crap. The setting and the story are terrible and sloppy. This franchise is all about the story; and attachment to the characters; without the story the game means nothing. Great graphics; good gameplay mechanics; but it does not compensate the horrible story in this game. What a dissapointment.This game is an absolute disaster and evil masquerading as art. A completely stupid and nonsensical story told through absurd and unjustified levels of brutality and violence. This game is rotten and will leaving you feeling the same - it's like everyone at Naughty Dog has some sick infatuation with watching and making people suffer (including the player) - how is this the same company that used to make fun games like Jak and Uncharted?? Find yourselves again Naughty Dog, this game is evil.Mediocre gameplay, good graphics but terrible story. This game is extremely disrespectful to fans of the first game. If you love the first game don't play this one, it's not worth your time, money and pain.A pure masterpiece like no other game in history. It’s just worth buying a PlayStation 4 only and only to experience this single game. Experience it as soon as possible cause these kinds of gems come out only once or twice in every decade.Felt hollow with just a political narrative. The gameplay felt smooth and improved but not the main focus. Story and character usually was. It mattered little to care for the beloved characters of prior just to focus on other characters' poor introductions and involvements.**Spoilers ahead. ** To start I wasn't one of the original fans of The Last of Us. When it came out i heard all kinds of great things but due to circumstances in my life, i was unable to play it. I ended up buying the first game about 2 years ago on PSN after they remastered it. WOW I knew there was a second game coming but I was so beyond in love with the story of the first game and the DLC. The mechanics were flawed it is true, but the way the characters were written and the story organically unfolds it just, it just really got me hooked. I said to myself, "This would make an AWESOME TV show". Looks like HBO had the same idea apparently. This game has stuck with me in a way others couldn't. I loved all 4 Uncharted games but like most mainstream games they are a PG sort of good where is this was Game of Thrones adult good (WINK WINK). Fast forward to a few months ago. I was riding high, very excited for the new game. With the pandemic i figured this would be an amazing game to bring out right now. Much like with the new Star Wars movies I was thinking that the possibilities could be endless. You could literally make the safest story possible and still win, both critically and with the fans. Well HBO then announces they are going to make a SHOW based on TLOU with the original writer and the show runner from Chernobyl. MY GOD how awesome....HOW AWESOME! Then came the spoilers. Of course I didn't pay attention to them. For weeks, i stayed off of social media the best i could. I didn't watch any youtube videos, until at last every aspect of what little of my online presence there was, pointed to the fact that everyone unanimously hated the leaks. I figured "How bad could they possibly be?". After all, this is a game meant to shock and awe, meant to bring you in with the amazing characters that you want to see succeed or fail and then and only then, bring you to your knees. Make you rethink what is right and wrong. Real moral dilemmas we could all experience. Well we can thank Instagram for spoiling one the biggest parts for me. With one "Swing", one little picture. the whole thing was ruined. It was a character i knew and loved, yes, but it had to be an honorable death the character deserved right? There had to be more context to what happened. I caved, i looked at the spoilers. My answer was a strong NO. Instead of treating this character with the end they truly deserved, it is at the hands of some MINOR MINOR.....MINOR characters that i didn't even come close to remembering, daughter...son.... or whatever they go by. I honestly don't know and I don't give a hoot what the characters orientation is. In fact, i just don't give a crap about them honestly AT ALL. Usually we tend to care about the people we spent a good portion of 20 hours with in the first game. It would be like Disney bring Mark Hamill back just to sit him on some rocks and not do AWESOME Luke Skywalker **** or if they teased Jon Snows lineage for over TEN years only to tell you that you are stupid for following the plot points. HA! GOT YOU! ARE YOU NOT ENTERTAINED??? Also RIP Snoke Frankly, NO, i'm not entertained. i am actually very saddened that the very thing that can make a show or game great can willingly be used in such a poor manner just for the sake of surprising an audience. You DO NOT need to destroy everything about a story or character to make the audience surprised. Characters don't need to act out of character to reach a destination in the story. Stop dumbing down great characters to serve as plot devices. It feels forced.... awkward, not organic. It really takes me out of a story when in the middle of a scene I say to myself, "Wait,.... why did they do that, ....that isn't how that character would approach this situation." But the story needed them to, so they are written stupid that way. OK so having said all that, The Graphics look AMAZING as usual with Naughty Dog. The mechanics are better, virtually everything is better, besides the most important part. THE STORY. I had a lot more about the story i didn't like but only so much can be said in 5 thousand characters. Just like with Game of Thrones and Star Wars, this could have been one of the greatest stories in the history of media. I am literally heart broken and just like with S8 of GOT, this game totally ruins replays of the first game for me. KNOWING how god awful and ridiculously remedial part II's story ended up being. Above all else, it hurts leaving this game with the extreme disappointment of feeling "What could have been".Great graphics! 8.5 points a little gameplay is very bad it’s a pity that it happened so much I waited so much to play but everywhere, videos, videos. I didn’t buy a movie. And the plot upset mehow poorly constructed the execution of the timid plot they chose for their story, which is revenge, which is also Number 1: The characters. The games first flaw is the inconsistencies of the characters we know, and their development being widely already explored and established.This game dismantles all of that, changing Joel into a clumsy gullible fool, as opposed to who he was in the first game. Joel's inability to trust people and their motives, are what kept him and his loved ones alive, he lived as well as he would die by the guidelines he set for himself in order to survive in a hostile world where anybody is susceptible to malevolence. This is seen practiced in Joel's and Ellie's journey across the country. In the 2nd game, Joel is transformed into somebody who is virtually unrecognizable by allowing his trust to put him and his brother in immediate danger, and this wasn't subtle in the least, not only did he agreed to follow Abby into her lodge where there were other people with motives unbeknownst to him but he didn't even question himself nor the assailants intentions, he acted through a persona that goes against everything he is. Furthermore, it just gets comical to the effect of even giving them his name and where they live. Ellie's demeanor is dubbed down as a linear character with no nuance or growth, she has a single narrative, and that is *Kill Abby* nothing else matters, and you see this unfolds as she mows down dozens of men and women with no hesitation in order to get what she wants, this also goes against Ellie's principles that are apparent in the first game as well. The rest of the cast serve no relevance to what is going on around them, they could've easily still made the game without the excess of characters, and it wouldn't have affected the game's main story at all. Abby has to be the worst written character in all of gaming history, she shows no regrets, not once does she reflect on her actions, I've seen enough dateline and crime shows to see that Abby shows every characteristics of a sociopath, lacking any empathy for the people she's killed, there's no relatable trait that makes me care for her as a person because she doesn't have any, and forcing the player to play as her for the entirety of the 2nd half of the game is unforgivable. Number 2: The story. The story in this game feels so redundant because it never gives the player the ability to sit and fathom what is going on, so the experience and the impact the game tries to express through its shock value, feels empty and drained of any context of what its trying to convey to the player, the message is drowned out by forced plot points that excruciatingly drags on just to arrive at no conclusion, the only saving grace the game's story had to cling on was the climax, and that was snuffed out by having Ellie save Abby's life (Her father's murderer and a sociopath) just to then let her walk away. The game lost it's inner core of what it was supposed to be about: THE **** ZOMBIES, in this game they were just there as props to serve a mundane and pointless narrative in revenge. Number 3: The politics. If you go back far enough, you'll see these subtle hints being expressed by the actions and words Niel has used, for instance: Neil Druckmann was doing a conference where he was suggesting that multiple gaming developers were sexist and part of the "problem" by allegedly monopolizing women's sensuality for profit. That alone gives you the impression of what Niel Druckmann assumes about the gaming community and developers of being a bunch of sexist pigs who looks at women no more than sexual objects for our desires and profits. He hired a transgendered individual because of his/her sexual identity and not because of his/her experience and performance, that is in itself the ideal irony in all of this, because what he assumes about the gaming community, is true of what HE IS, looking at people only through the lens of dirty politics and not for who they are as individuals, what only matters is what group they belong to. Number 4:The Controversies. Neil and naughty dog with sony, used a company called "Muso" to find and strike independent gaming journalist on youtube, for even muttering any hints at the game's leaks, multiple channels were susceptible in losing their careers over something so damn trivial, because Neil can't stand having dissonance being discussed about his overly pretentious game. I'll end with this: People loved The last of us because of how easy it was to relate to Joel and Ellie's story, the zombies were there for a purpose, everything and everyone in the game served a purpose and a meaning, and all of it was served masterfully as a complimentary to Joel's and Ellie's development as characters and their story. None of that is potrayed in the last of us 2.The last of Us 2 looks good has a great soundtrack and the level design is really good. The game has seen slight improvements. Nothing I would call a generational leap but it is definitely improved from the last game. The problem is the story is a big letdown and deviates from what made the first game great. Characters make dumb and laughable decisions throughout. The game relies heavily on shock value but not the kind that makes you feel emotional it is shock value that leaves you wondering what the developers and writers were thinking when they constructed this narrative. The ending is a joke and makes no sense. Over all very disappointed with the final product. If you must play this game because you are a huge fan of the original just wait for a sale or buy it used. Not worth $60 and has no replay value at all.The first game makes you warm and give you hope; the second game give you shxt and make you angry. Revenge plot is far inferior and generic. And they are pushing a dangerous agenda pitifully. The gameplay is basically the first-game-polished, far not enough for a 7-year development time. Don't buy this if you enjoy the first game.This is story game and main part of this game its a story!And story is boring.What about the game the last of us? the last of us is Joel and Ally! Why is this game bad?Because the autor hate this characters. In beginnigs of this game Joel will be killed by rat Abby when he save her from zombie...and Ally wants revenge. The first half of the game is a nice beautiful adventure of Ally and Dina. The gameplay is almost no different from the first part, new puzzles with a rope and glasses !! Wow is that all you came up with? the stealth curve is boring and not interesting and does not look like the E32019 gameplay.But then it gets worse and worse the gameplay for a new character degrades. They make us love Abby and forgive her, try to show that she is a good person in different aspects. I feel like the author says: "Love her !! and hate Ally".Hitler also created pictures and was an artist. Look he is good like Abby loves him right now!i dont wanna play by Abby !i dont wanna fight with Ally!I dont wanna kill Joel. And i dont wanna save Abby. Abby is the worst in this game.The last of us lost its essence with the ideal story that impressed everyone, but the second part became a purely commercial and marketing game, a cheap game centered on gays and feminism disgusting, I do not talk about graphics and gameplay they are good, but the story is the worstSimple.. it's the best game I've ever played so far. The game drives you in as if you were in it. It has that particular touch that makes you embody the characters. Graphics are the best in the history of videogames, gameplay is really decent and everyone knows it. The story??? Omg, I love this story too! The ending blew my mind. The story is very similar to what happens to the life of characters in The Walking Dead; it's the apocalipsis zombie what do you people expect??? things not always happen the way everybody wants and that is what I enjoyed about it, even if characters such as protagonist are to be finished off. Embrace it! Ioved Joel with the guitar! It's a 9 for me bec they killed Joel and it would be nice if they add multiplayer mode but gave it 10 to help the score against haters!this game is trash, i can't believe this game was developed in 7 years, joel my beloved character, the symbol of the series was killed and humiliated by people, omg the story is so filthy and lousy, please dismiss the person who wrote this script, I love the last of us part 1 but part 2 has ruined all the good and legacy that part 1 left behind.Been playing Naughty Dogs games since they began and have loved many especially the Uncharted series and TLOU. This was a game that was a no brainer that I was going to get Day 1 before seeing the leaks of the awful story, horribly misleading media and the criminal attacks on Youtubers by Sony/Naughty Dog. The antiquated game play, bland level design and grey world are not saved by good graphics, all AAA games are expected to have these. A game to wipe from my memory.You read about story already and all this tolerance that flying in your face is annoying as F. If I could return this game like in Steam, I would return it in half an hour.Um excelente game que superou as espectativas que já eram elevadas devido ao enorme sucesso do primeiro titulo. Uma obra que supera a difícil missão de ser melhor que seu antecessorЛинейный, скучный геймплей, игра совершенно не заслуживает такого огромного хайпа, потому что, повторюсь - обычная, линейная игра, лучше какой нибудь фильм посмотреть. Плюс ко всему - заявления разработчиков (и не только) о том, что это что-то великое - выглядят по меньшей мере СТРАННО, в 2020 году, в век великих игр в открытом мире с куда более увлектальным и проработанным сюжетом, с возможностью ВЫБОРА, который влияет на этот сюжет - заявлять, что их линейная, коридорная игра это что-то великое - САМООБЛИЗЫВАНИЕ и пренебрежение к игрокам.This game makes no sense, a mass murder (Ellie) forgives the person she hates most in the world, not going to happen.If the story was good I’d give the game an 8. The gameplay has Slightly improved since part 1. Graphics are amazing. The story is awful though just being honestAfter I saw the leaks and the released gameplay footage of the entire game of course it’s all just one big beautiful mess as expected. This is not the sequel we never needed. Then the final boss, I just stopped watching the video, no satisfying ending what so ever. I wish I could give the game a negative -10.0Превосходная игра с завораживающим сюжетом. Как можно ее хейтит. На вкус и цвет конечно друзей нет, но всё же такому произведению ставить нули это бесчеловечно!)The Last of Us Part 2 is an absolute masterpiece worthy of its predecessor! Do not go by the fake reviews and play it for yourself before you judge it. Naughty dog couldve gone with a similar strategy with the first part and played safe but they took the risk and such new attempts must be appreciated and encouraged.After playing for around 12 hours I can say it's a real slog to keep playing it. The game turned from its storytelling predecessor to a uncharted, tlou, cod hybrid. The graphics are pretty much the same as the first but the world is more open, it does suffer from lack of detail in most areas (especially the spore areas) and it struggles to stay 30 fps. Its very noticeable that it drops sub 20 fps, this caused me to get headaches. It also makes your ps4 sound like a jet engine. Even the UI got worse and the weapon upgrades, the lack of choice in skill upgrades. But the biggest issue is how bad the story is, they went from great story telling in the first game, to this shock value, agenda pushing garbage. All the character building is gone and its just action, explore, kill 50 people, add some bad story telling and repeat. I don't know if I can finish this trash game.看到这样的用户评分我就放心了。垃圾游戏。顽皮狗和你的Sjw思想一起见鬼去吧！This game should be rated "D" for Disappointment of the year.Being a huge fan of the first game, I can honestly say I’ve never felt so betrayed by a sequel. The graphics are incredible and the gameplay is slightly better than the previous with new additions to help your survivability, but the story is the equivalent of a car crash. I saw all of the leaks before release and still thought that there was a chance that playing would change the context and perspective and I was correct. It changed it so negatively that I couldn’t look away as one of my favorite franchises was butchered before my eyes. Neil Druckmann stated that this game is about hate and I fully understand that now. I hated the game being leaked, I hate the direction they took the story, I hate the character decisions that seemed out of place, I hate the reviewers giving mysterious positive reviews claiming it’s a masterpiece and I hate myself for buying this game. One point for graphics and another for gameplay. Nothing else deserved it. Also, what kind of revenge story (which is played out already) ends with no revenge for the main character? And by main character, I’m referring to one of the two people we looked forward to playing as, not bland and boring Abby.I feel bullied by this game, disrespected as a fierce fan of the first TLOU. How could they spit on the characters we know and love in order to push some crappy woke agenda down our throats? The game looks decent from a technical point of view, but the story and the treatment of the characters make it nothing but a fresh masterfully polished turd.Fue lo mejor de lo que esperaba para mi esta al mismo nivel que la 1 si no esta mas alto que la parte 1 a la gente ni le gusta mucho por que joel muere pero tienen que entender que la muerte de joel hizo mas fuerte a ellieThis is not what a sequel to The Last Of Us should have been. This is not right. There is truly nothing here more than agenda. Why would there be THIS many people upset over the game? The recent Final Fantasy 7 Remake quite literally split the fanbase in two, but look at the userscore... The writing in this game feels like a fan fic written by a secret third party, who knows nothing about writing for video games, let alone The Last Of Us, but was given a platform to push their agenda. The choices made by established characters completely goes against everything we know about them and what they've said or done before. Gameplay takes a backseat to all the agenda, especially when they have to get such Schindler's List-tier masterpiece lines like "bigot sandwich" across. Also thought it was a terrible design choice to have a guitar strumming minigame, to thematically tie with the world and characters, but no golf minigame. Oh, and what even happened with the whole infection/Ellie being immune? This is so obviously only written for one purpose: agenda.I understand why people give the game so much hate.But they can't understand that this shows reality. The Brutal way Joel is killed is not a problem. Because I know that if a apocalypse happens things like his death will happen. That's why I don't hate the game. It's brutal violence is needed to show reality - how cruel the real world is. And a message to all the people who say that the game is too much violent or brutal - just shut the **** up and stop crying. The world is no place filled with fairy tales. Life is harsh and hard. Especially during the apocalypse. So just Grow up and stop pretending to know everything, and that that your review is the right one. Because it is not. And about the game play. I think it is amazing. It just keeps everything from the first game that I loved. And improves it. Another message to all the people who say that the game play hasn't changed any better: it wouldn't be a good sequel if it changed the game play completely. It kept it the same and improve it. The gunplay is good. Thank God they didn't change it to be like CoD or fortnite or GTA5 just to satisfy whining fan boys like you. The game play isn't supposed to be like any of these I mentioned. It is supposed to be last of us game play. And this game keeps it very well. About the graphics... well.. They are impressive. Fenomenal even. And you who say that it has bad graphics... You are Dumb. Why don't who complain about the graphics make another game with better graphics if you know so much. Right you won't because you can't and you know it. All you can do is complain. So if you can't make anything better just do yourself a favor and stop whining. Last but not least to all you who say Tha are hardcore fans of the last of us and come here to complain about game play and graphics... YOU ARE NOT HARDCORE FANS. JUST GO TO HELL AND STOP WHINING. This game brings back nostalgia from the old last of us with its game play. If you do not appreciate that then you are not a hardcore fan.Only because of the Graphics I don't give it a 0/10. The Rest was so awful. - The Story is a mess - The Gameplay is outdated - The Game is MUCH to long I'm glad to get at least 40 from 70€ for this Game back...While I like to watch and play trash sometimes, this is below anyone with half a brain cell. Bad doesn't justify what this game is. It's just appalling. They will say this got review bombed... But how does that even make sense when we all knew no matter how good or bad this game was, millions were going to be playing it and watching it. These scores are legit and do justice for an awful game.This game is a scam. Wow! Talk about lying about Joel being in the game. They destroyed him and his character in the worst way possible. The game is only 20 hours long and no one wins in the story. There is no end game. Everyone loses. Don't believe these credit reviews. They were bought. This game has no multiplayer either. It's so depressing how they slapped the fan base and destroyed the TLOU name.played & reviewed on PS4 Pro. The Last of Us 2 is beautiful game visually. It pushes the PS4 to the limit & i was amazed how developers can develop a visually stunning games near the end of PS4 cycle. All of this has only to be go down with the most pity revenge story which takes away the legacy of this great title. Pros: - Amazing visuals - Great Sounds - realistic post apocalyptic environment Cons: - BAD Story - Unlikable Characters - Wacky Controls - Glitchy/Stupid AI - Frame Rate can drop heavily specially during combats - No control Over Main Character Derision - BAD Ending/Conclusion Last comment: this could be have been a real potential for GOTY if the story set right. I give it 5/10. I hope Naughty Dog End this series & focus on new Project after they butchered most beloved game.Petty revenge plot with spontaneous forgiveness at the end after hundred killings. Below average. False advertising with Joel. His 3d model was changed from promo materials basically it was implied he should've been for a while but killed off after 3 hours and all conversations of JoelElly is poorly written flashbacks. DinaElly relationship shown ok and sometimes great but at the end it's soap opera. Graphics and acting is great. Don't care about gameplay and was here for continuation of THE story. But got just A story. 4 golf clubs out of 10 spits on the grave of IP.В общем,я считаю,что naughty dog стоит продавать игру тем,кого она считает своей целевой аудиторией.) Я в упор не пойму,почему рынок до сих пор эту проблему не урегулировал,с каких пор у нас решает меньшинство? Почему игры делают в угоду тем,кого очень мало и кто в игры не играет? Я очень надеюсь,что игра получит наихудшие оценки,дабы студия задумалась о выбранном курсе. Игру к покупке категорически не советую. Да и сам Дракман говорил,что можно и не покупать) Выполним его желание!A franchise ruined. The first was amazing, but this...this aint it. Simply put, the game is not worth playing it. Why? the awful story. I cannot understand why this was made, who thought it was a good ideas to put this out, and who approved it? Naughty Dog may want to do some major changes in their offices/upper management. Worst of all this game does even have multiplayer. The first had an awsome multiplayer, this game doesnt offer anything.A beautiful one of the best stories ive seen in games, with next gen graphics, animations and lighting that ive never seen before. This is truly a game of a generation that you need to experienceOnly 3 months ago I played bought the last of us part 1,i blown away with the story graphics which was made 7 years back may be 10 years. I love to play part 2 as I already playing it, as far it is good & am loving it.I was so interested for this game. I am a huge fan of this game characters. But it completely disappointed me. Didn’t expect this kind of cheap story. Ellie is completely a boring character but she was not in the first game. Joel is dead & you have to play with abby. I mean seriously???I refused to believe the spoilers and make my own decision. This is the first review I am doing on Metacritic because of how lackluster this game is in comparison to the previous. Graphics and Mechanics on the game were fantastic... there are sections of the game where the graphics are absolutely phenomenal, and it is seriously impressive how far and how detailed this franchise has come. That being said, the story... I cannot believe that the characters developed throughout the previous game have been thrown to the wayside and dumped on like they have. I am not going to spoil this because there is enough spoilers in this thread, but seriously... I've seen better plot lines in Dynasty Warriors games. Playing as Abby feels 100% forced and you have to conduct things as Abby that are forced. I didn't even like Abby yet I am being forced to carry out actions against characters I enjoyed playing and want to succeed. It's like watching Rob Zombies 31 and not caring if any of the protagonists die because you cannot stand any of them. I'd rather go back to playing the first game and enjoy the development versus playing this again. I literally hated the forced narrative and essentially destroying characters I built in the previous game. YuckThe Gameplay is great but the story is awful and generic "oh you killed Joel i must track down everyone one at a time and go through a lot of situations just to kill a single person" it's like farcry 5 for example you gotta kill them off one at a time and the false advertising oh man, they really tried their best too make it look like Dina died and we were playing with Joel trying too avenge DinaThe graphics of the game looks insanely good and the attachment to details is mind blowing. It’s fun to explore all the locations and learn something new about this world. The gameplay is only okay, nothing new and nothing bad about it. The game has some flashbacks to the first game. They are very interesting and work very well. That’s all the positive I can say about the game. Most of the characters behaves like the world is fine and the apocalypse is not a big problem. Some of the characters are very unbelievable and bad written. You can feel the political agenda in every second of interaction with this character. I didn’t like the story of the game. There are many sad and intensive moments but overall I just didn’t care. What they did to Joel is bull***t. I can’t imagine, that anyone who played the first game would feel okay with it. So the story gets 0 Points, it’s nothing like the story of the first game. Overall I think the game is okay for people who didn’t play the first game, although they wouldn’t understand many of the little details. I didn’t enjoy the game, especially when it forced me to play as Abby for many hours, I hated it. The exploration of the world was fun and I enjoyed the graphics and all the little details. But the story and the characters killed the game for me, so I don’t recommend it to the fans of the first game.Don't waste you money for this trash. Let's pretend the game only have part 1 and this part 2 not exist. This is an absolute disrespect to the first gameGame story is terrible, the graphics and animations are very good, but they are not worth it in the end. I feel like this entire franchise has been ruined by this release, also I feel like Naughty Dog falsely advertised what the story is going to about, that's why I'm giving it a 4.Save your money. I did, and I'm so happy I can pre order good games now. All the leaks and spoilers are true. All the hate this game is getting is deserved.An impressive technical display crudely bolted to a trainwreck of a story. The developers are obviously huge fans of the "cinéma du corps" scene, which focuses on assaulting cinematography, extreme violence, and despair. I appreciate the fact that they tried to make a videogame like that, but in order to do that successfully you need to make the audience relate to the character's motivations and their decisions every step of the way. Unfortunately, they failed completely. Character decisions are nonsensical and the ending is unwarranted to the point of being borderline offensive. It's still an enjoyable, pretty and highly atmospheric game though, so if you are into that it might be worth your time.Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!Historia besta !!! Puro filme !!!I will make this a non-spoiler review, and I actually have almost finished the game. I want to give my specific perspective of where I am coming from, so you truly know I am not a BOT or some kind of review troll. I'm just a normal gamer that loved the first game, and wants to review the second one now. Me: I am a female gamer, and I greatly support LGBT/trans rights and have no issues at all with any of that kind of stuff in any game, so I want to be very clear about that point. Maybe others overly like or dislike the game because of this kind of thing, but I'm only discussing the game in as objective a way as possible. I would have given the first game a 9/10, I was not really into the game play a ton, but the story totally sucked me in and I fell in love with the two main characters. Now, let's talk about TLOU2. The game play feels about the same to me, it doesn't seem to have evolved all that much, but it was certainly good enough I think for most people. But I want to just list pros and cons of this game... PROS: The graphics are beautiful to me. I really enjoyed just exploring the world. Some of the visceral fighting is a little too violent for my taste, but I think it was pretty intense in a good way at times. I also generally enjoyed a lot of the music, and the game feels very polished with no bugs. I love a lot of the level designs, and had fun in both the more linear parts and when you had a little more freedom CONS: It has to be the story. It's not about specific characters and moments on their own, it's the overall tone and theme of the narrative. I know some people will rail on specific things, but I can probably tough it out and accept any one bad scene if the overall story is still good. But it wasn't. In short, I fell out of love with Ellie and never fell in love with any other character at all. The narrative is too simplistic to me compared to the nuance and subtle undertones of the first game. I feel like this story could have been told - and has been already - in so many games, shows, and movies, whereas the first game felt very unique in how the specific narrative tied together. I am really shocked the writing is this poor, it's really a huge letdown for me both in terms of plot holes and just general dialogue, etc. I feel like the first game was at a level like a real written novel of high quality and this one is more over the top pulp fiction comic book. I felt so many emotions during the first game, I felt almost nothing this time around. It just felt too over the top and bleak in a way that didn't ever connect with me. I think the Schindler's List comparison I have heard is a very poor one because in that movie I constantly felt empathy, pain, and raw emotion constantly but in this game I just felt numb to the violence and felt almost nothing emotionally. They didn't build the characters well enough to ever really care about them, and then once they start acting out, it just doesn't connect. Also, maybe the pure violence appeals more to men but for me it took away from the narrative. I think a 4/10 is a fair score given everything I experienced. I still support a lot of what I think the game was trying to do, but it just didn't tell a good story. And that's true no matter what specific scene or situation someone wants to talk about -- on the macro level, the writing brings down the game.If you remember Alan Wake - the game with barely passable gameplay, but a vivid and captivating story. Tlou2 is basically Alan Wake but if it was written by 13 y.o. 2 points for the artists' workФеминистический выб док, заточенный под обиженных школьниц из твиттера. 99.999 процентов из них даже играть в эту игру не будут. Специально зашел в эту помойку чтобы поставить 0, но сюжет отменный, поэтому ставлю 2I'm not going to ruin this for anyone with spoilers, but I am highly upset with the direction the story took. I already knew some of what was going to happen from the spoilers but I was really upset when I realized I was mislead and lied to by the naughty dog. The trailers post fake cutscenes misrepresenting things that happen. The story is ludicrous and incomplete. It is all over the place. Horrible. Do not recommend.Neil Druckman really destroyed this game by plaguing it with politics and his personal views. What makes it worse is that he killed off onenof the best characters in Playstation's history. I'm giving this game a score of one just for the graphics, as those are pretty good, but that's about it.This really was not a good game it was really horrible it had bad controls joel dies in the first 2 hours and you play as her killer and guess what Ellie can kill hundreds of people but in the ending she saves abby,gets her fingers chopped off and then let's abby leave I'm not giving this game 0 because the only thing good about this game is the graphicsI’m gonna cut this short, because you probably feel the same way I do. The graphics and sound are good, not as good as they showed earlier and compared to the first game which came out 7 years ago, but still good for a game. The characters and story are pitifully bad. So bad that I can’t stomach talking more about the subject before seeing red and losing my **** I don’t mind main characters dying or whatever, when done well, it works. But this isn’t anywhere near well. Far from it. New characters that they try to shove down my throat are badly done fan fic quality trash. Don’t get me started on the Neil Druckmann insert sex scene. 2020 continues to be an abomination on all fronts. Oh and one last thing, all the 10/10 reviews showed me that 95% of the game journalist sites are either bought out or wouldn’t know a perfect game if it came and bit them on their ass. Either way, massive hit to their credit. Massive hit to gaming. What a **** show this is guys. Shame.The Last Of Us Part II is an amazing and beautiful journey while deadly as you move on. The story is great, (not perfect), however the gameplay was MUAH. The combat is just GREAT, every time I deal that finishing blow with a baseball bat or pipe I yell. The immersion is just great, the game is awesome. Definitely a GOTY contender and possible winner! Ignore the low rating cuz their just haters trying to do something. HOWEVER, if you are not ok with seeing limbs getting shot off, blown up, etc, this game may not be for it as it is VERY violent. ND made a great game, and a GOTY winner.1 point gives to the amazing graphic, -9 points give to the terrible story. This game makes me feel sick after I beat it, really really uncomfortable. I don’t think that should be what games are made for. A game made for total political propaganda. This time Naughty Dog has really disappointed us as gamers, they not only provided this mess to us, but also sadly destroyed the first TLOUS, so that’s what you get... 1 point. Really really disappointing! A total trash!This game has legit the worst writing I have ever seen in a gaming industry and Abby is one of the worst if not the worst character ever. Why the hell would you ever force players to play as her/him? I dont give a damn about her/his story. The ending of this game does not make any sense. Plot armors + holes everywhereA disgusting sequel soaked in bile to the fans. I was waiting for this game, but I got the patient’s nonsense, where one of the main characters is brutally killed, and the main character forgives it. Thanks for spitting in a soulCadê o jogo, só tem partes desnecessárias, tudo para uma narrativa ideológica, esqueceram de fazer o jogo. Não gaste seu dinheiro ou compre em promoção ou algo do tipo, assista no YouTube mesmo são 11 horas de filme ruim mesmo.A superb realization of the paths the first game set out....Superb game. A must play. Please ignore any anti SJW reviews. Most bad reviews haven't complete the game or even played a minute of it. Completed it this morning and it's the best thing I've played in 34 years over been gamingDo you call this peace of s*it game I like the first game but this shame on the studio They kill tthey kill Joel by that stupid wayJoel dies terrible sequel..what a waste of money............................The best game I've played. The gameplay is amazing, the graphics and game design on top. The plot - I have not seen so many emotions in any game! Most of those who rated it low simply watched the passage on YouTube, rather than playing. And this is a big difference. It is a pity that you can’t erase your memory and go through again and experience the same emotions. In which game can you sing "take on me" a-ha?The game looks absolutely beautiful. The graphics DONT make a game good, the story does. The game is a big waste of time. Joel saves abby, joel tells strangers his name then dies by them. You search for a character(Abby) to kill but end up getting your ass beat. Ellie gets warned to not let Abby see her. Get forced fed sjw transgender stuff about a girl wanting to be a boy but her people didn't like it and weren't treating her right. You (Ellie ) find Abby and damn near drown her only to let her live. Come to an empty home not able to play the guitar well with the missing fingers. Ellie then leaves the house. Can a third game feel more forced?You over hyped this and killed it before it was even released. It doesn't live up to the hype. Never would. I played it for 10 mins before the first crash. Blue error screen and kicked out of game. Its got many of the same bugs the first LoU 1 has so none of them were fixed or removed. Looks just like LoU 1. I thought it was supposed to look great but it doesn't. Looks like a 7 year old game. I am not impressed with the PC gay crap in the game. WHO CARES what sexual orientation she is, not our concern. Gay crap shouldn't be in the game. It shouldn't be in ANY game. Hate it so much im not going to finish it. Instead going to return it to the shop for a full refund.In my opinion this game is amazing , the story clearly upsets people but that’s the point , when writing a story or a film you can play with the antagonist/protagonist point of view but when you are forced to play as the one you may loathe you are pushed into empathy (hopefully) and clearly some of the reviews show they took issue . To really see the cat/canary concept built into what is essentially two games is amazing. It’s sad to see that so many people do not appreciate the story , sure could some things be better of course ,but it’s easy to criticize the writing when you have never created a complex woven narrative . I enjoyed it so much ,I also cringed and got mad but some of my favorite books and films make me uncomfortable.My official review is on the left. I wanted to avoid, my colleagues being blacklisted by sony, for giving a low score. My personal opinion on this game is this. It´s not really a videogame, more of a interactive movie. You wander from setpiece to setpiece, give the inputs which are very basic and move on. Then the typical cover shooter arena or platforming part are inbetween to "diversify" the gameplay which only is tedious after so much games from the same developer. A lot of things happen out of stupidety of the characters which is often a result of bad writing. Characters are very flat and only few have signs of development. Personally I´d say if you´ve played the last of us, you´ve played the second installment with the main difference that you control a character which you probably can´t really get into. Only good thing are visuals, which is not enough to make a interactive movie into a game, but needed to sell this product to a wider audience. If you have the urge to "play" it, I´d say ask a friend to borrow, wait until a sale or a used copy because paying 60$ for a tortue porn movie is a bit much. Just a friendly insider warning, if a game has too much positive ratings, there´s something fishy going on.just....... it story not good, really bad,bad idea. so can not even bring herself to take revenge but seems to have no problem killing hundreds of people instead.Absolute Masterpiece. Naughty dog gods. Neil Druckmann the great artist. The best work of art on ps4. Абсолютный шедевр. Naughty dog боги. Neil Druckmann великий художник. Лучшее произведение искусства на PS4.What a JOKE... What a pity. Game is horrible, Low dialogs and all argument is very, very, very basic. What the hell! The anterior LOU is magnificent. This version is very poor. RIP TLOU II.and RIP Naughty Dog.A complex narrative, full of brave choices. The two games should be part of every course in writing for cinema or games. The second half of the game adds to the story and builds a world and characters which confront the players with their actions. The fact that this is a game and the player is the one in charge create a visceral experience you can’t get anywhere else. I’ve finished the game overcome by emotions. This is a masterpiece.Holy **** this was such a wild ride! The graphics and gameplay were so fluid and phenomenal, at times I was just amazed at how well this game looked and felt as I played. A lot of people complain about the story, but they must not have finished the game because it all makes perfect sense, you actually feel the loss and grief of Joel’s death throughout the entire game, which makes the whole point of the story make sense. Abby is a total bone-head and as Mel says, a piece of **** but in the end, she loses everything and gets what she deserves. She also spares Ellie twice in the game and she tries to redeem herself . The game did not push any agenda like these bigots review bombing rn are saying, it barely mentions that one character is trans, but it isn’t sugar coated either. I am still recovering for a few days of beating it because I literally mourn for some of these losses. The game is jaw-dropping at moments and the gameplay is irresistibable. I will be replaying it again. Absolute masterpiece.This game is an absolute huge steaming pile of garbage. There are too many cutscenes and boring walking sections in this game. This isn't even a game, this is a movie. The story is by far the worst story I ever seen in a videogame. There are too many plot holes and it is poorly written. The dialogue is extremely cringeworthy. The characters are bland and cringeworthy as well. The gameplay is so boring and repetitive. The developers were too cheap and lazy to overhaul the gameplay, despite multiple delays. The level design is a joke. The physics are trash and the gore is exaggerated, which breaks immersion. Speaking of immersion, the AI is incredibly stupid in this game. There are very little puzzles and all of them are lazily designed. The running animations are laughable. The pacing is so horrendous in this game, it almost put me to sleep out of boredom. The developer who directed this movie game even admitted that they don't use the word "fun". If their goal was to not make the game fun, then they nailed it. It's pathetic that game developers don't even want games to be fun anymore. If I'm not mistaken, games are suppose to be fun. That is the reason why I even play videogames in the first place. There is so much SJW influence in this game. There is no multiplayer at all. So once you beat the story, there is not a reason to touch this game again. It will go back to the shelf and collect dust. Charging $60 for a game with no replay value is a cashgrab. The greedy developers are basically charging $60 for a movie ticket. They promised there would be multiplayer and decided to cut it out. The developers were too greedy and lazy to develop multiplayer. The only good thing in this game is graphics, but the graphics sacrificed the gameplay mechanics. I don't recommend this worthless game at all.Way too predicible and boring gameplay. Story had too many bad times. It should habe more good moments. Its ver bad. I loved the first game but this is very bad Naughty Dog.O primeiro é Mil Vezes Melhor,Matar um cara como Joel logo no Início do Game fala sério. Colocando Lacração como Smp meu Deus. O game tem uma Ótima Jogabilidade, Gráficos Lindos....mas deixa a desejar em outros aspectos, História muito forçada !!8Game full of bugs , not to mention the weak graphics ! Completely leaked story ! Sony spends years to launch the game and when it does it full of bugaO jogo se chama the last of us mas se esqueceu disso e passou a focar apenas em questões políticas o gameplay é horrível e o jogo tem cutscenes a cada 5min não dá pra gostar desse jogo.I can't believe how bad the story is, it's a mess, this is more overrated than the first game, it tries so hard, and fails to deliver. The amount of 10's from the media this game received is a testament to the disconnect between journalists and the general public. Metacritic will probably scrape all 0's so I recommend you give it at least a 1/10. It is so sad that this game will probably end up winning GOTY.This game is not as good as some may say. if you like a slow game that is stealth based then maybe. dont buy this game if you want action or a fast pace. the graphics are better than uncharted but the rest of the game is worse. the controls suck and are sluggish. the combat is so bad that you almost have to play the game stealthy. not worth $60. maybe worth $30 for a used copy if you really want to play it. dont buy this game expecting alot other than good graphics and keep you hopes low so maybe you wont be disappointed. just my opinion but this game is WAY over rated.Game crashing Joy pad confuse Graphics suspect More cutscenes than game I really expect more from this game, almost 8 years to show a weak game, no way!O enredo criado em The Last of Us 1 foi totalmente jogado no lixo, a partir do momento que Neil Druckman resolveu lacrar. Não existe cura para a infecção, não existe o objetivo maior que seria a salvação da humanidade. A Naughty Dog passa por problemas, isso já sabemos, mas nada justifica você pegar uma história e jogar no lixo, com menos de 1 hora de gameplay. A única lição que tirei desse jogo, foi que não se deve comprar nada em pré venda, agora é procurar um ferro velho pra tentar recuperar o dinheiro vendendo a caixinha de metal.O jogo tem gráficos bons e ótima jogabilidade mas a história muitas vezes força para ideologia, muuuitas cenas e pouco game play, você anda e anda e anda e mata alguns inimigos para assistir outra cena e a assim o jogo segue.Great game! I dont know what the fuss is about but im loving it. I think everyone is just following the bad reviewers. All i here is the same **** joel is dead and it was epic. Get over it.A key moment to actually prove that gaming journalists are either paid for giving good reviews. The game itself is clusterf... of a story that only one man likes; the creator. Technically it's ok. I don't we ever will see a game reviewed so differently between users (real gamers) and sellout journalists.The truth is that I did not like that twist in this new chapter, it has been very bad and counting that now they turn out to be couples of both genders, this to promote this type of relationship I do not see well for adolescents and in terms of physics the game It is disgusting with ridiculously very false animations and the script of the narrative very bad and leaving the narrative the protagonist and has a thousand different faces reaching a point that I do not know who is who with so many different faces takes away the desire to follow history with from time to time a literally different character this game is a joke I do not recommend it at all .Rip off of Walking Dead (especially the Negan sensless brutality angle) finally runs out of steam on the one-trick social justice pony it thought was a thoroughbred. Happy to never see another Naughty Dog game after playing just the first hour of this post-modernist torture porn.An insult to everything that made the first game so great. 25 hours of revenge nonsense with no payoff and every character is unlikable. The story is so pathetic and meaningless you won't care who lives or dies by the end.Anytime creators inject political narratives or virtue signaling into a game, it ceases being a game and becomes propaganda. When the paid shills fawn over the game giving it 10 out 10 then you know its awful. The creator's actions (dcma take downs) shows they are not worthy of being treated fairly. The story is below par. It comes across as a entitled parent story on reddit. 2 minutes in and you feel full from all the BS they have fed you. Save your money or go buy the new Skyrim because this turd stinks and needs to be flushed. The fact that you still have websites and paid shills trying in vain to convince actual gamers that this is worthy of playing show everything that is wrong with the industry. Shills are nothing more than political activists masquerading as objective gamers, gaming companies desperately trying to virtue signal to the far left activists that they are "woke". Platforms carrying political narratives into what becomes games and websites trying to lessen the impact of actual gamers opinions in order to push political crap. Voters told these far left fascists and low IQ SJWs that they are not in ANY kind of agreement with their Anti-American views so the shills and activists doubled their efforts to flood all entertainment platforms with their nonsensical political views. Thankfully these "woke" companies are falling one after another because no one wants to pay to listen to what offends them or what group they are trying to virtue signal. Bottom line: ANY company/website/activist that injects their fascist opinions, woke activism or ignorance into OUR entertainment deserves to have their intellect match their pockets : bankrupt, devoid of creativity and hope. They deserve to be jobless, homeless and friendless. Their brand of activism has no place in this world.The graphics here are a huge improvement over the last game. The gameplay also has been improved upon when it comes to combat but it's already starting to feel very repetitive. The puzzles are more interesting but there are a lot less than what was in the first game. The characters do not feel like the same people as they were in the first game. The story is the biggest let down so for, it when from an Impactful Story-Driven Experiences with moments of joy such as petting a giraffe and choose to leave Ellie hanging (not give a high five) to this game which is just revenge with a side of depression and full of plot holes.Самая ожидаемая игра для любителей первой части The Last uf us. Вторую часть купил по предзаказу, специальное издание. За несколько часов игры впечатления самые положительные, очень впечатлила графика, геймплей, звуковое сопровождение. Огромный прорыв в игровой индустрии, возможно дополню отзыв после полного прохождения данной игры. P.S. Общую картину в отношении данной игры портят большое количество спойлеров, не совсем понятно зачем это люди делают ...The game is Amazing.., I don't know what people expected, Joel and Elie walking from point A to pont B again.. I like the story so far... 10 hours into the game.., Epic game... Thanks Naughty Dog.... It’s hard to impress people these days...,Gaymeplay is still extremly borring and Joel death scene so disappointment. There is no music as well. Game looks like spin-off and no moreGuión decepciona en casi todo, desencantado y defraudado con el final. El juego obliga a ver las cosas con cierta carga política (No tiene que ver en absoluto con la orientación amorosa o sexual de Ellie) y obliga a perdonar, sentir o manejar a personajes imposibles de empatizar, lo bueno que no hay juegos parecidos que trasmitan esta sensación de odio sin sentido, tambien los gráficos, la jugabilidad e incluso es divertido en muchos puntos. Decepcionado como Fan del primero.Это просто, пи*%#ц... слов даже нет тех, как описать это... алчный фанатизм Дракмана, уничтожил столь любимую почти всеми игру, в шлак. Кранч удалсяLindo juego regular final aun asi aporta muy bien a la historia de los gamers jejeje que creiziSony PlayStation is just a shell of its past self goner the days of fun linear story driven single player games with great writing and characters and no politics.La historia es peor que horrible, tiene un downgrade respecto a los trailers enorme y una jugabilidad normalista.Neil Druckmann simply took and ripped out heart from the fans. They did not care about everything, the main thing is to work out the agenda of minorities. He forever destroyed the story ... even the first part will now be apprehensively remembered. He has no forgiveness. Disappointment is no limit.Un juego que se ve influenciado por las tendencias de la actualidad de la identidad de generos , para causar polémica, haciendo aun lado la buena historia que llevaba el primer juego, y un gameplay que lo podríamos confundir con un Splinter cell pero con una chica con diferentes preferencias sexuales, esperaba mucho de él y la decepción ha sido grande. Nada nuevo que aportarnot a bot you hypocritical modders, the paid reviewers obviously did not objectively review this dumpster fire. they destroyed an entire franchise with their sjw rubbish, the story sucks, no more likable characters because of reasons you can view in other comments, and most importantly completely illogical actions by past main characters just to push their sjw agenda.Terrible game , I can't believe Naughty Dog has gone down such a depraved road , they have sacrificed such great lore to achieve their total nonsense agenda, the graphics are phenomenal, but Naughty Dog has always excelled in that area ,I really was looking forward to this game's script because I was truly impressed with the first game's but I was sorely disappointed, never again Naughty Dog will I ever purchase another one of your products unless of course you fire the director, and screen writer.This game is a joke, stay away if you loved the old characters and the story. Thanks a lot Druckman. This is truly the last of this franchise. cant even go back to the original, complete missed opportunity and way to destroy a franchise, joins the **** with Star Wars, Star Trek, Dr. Who, Terminator, time to get the gasoline out and roast some marsh mellows.Golf scene make the game lose purpose and once you find it. No likeable character or development like at all. This is like a bad Netflix show not a video game. I will pretend this is a Canon and story ended 7 years ago.Maybe the best graphics until the moment, but all the LGBT Agenda ruined the game, Naughty Dog turned a good history in a pile of ... its a shame end the game like this.Después de estar dos días jugando sin parar solo puedo decir. WOW, menudo pedazo de final tiene el juego. Qué lástima que tanta gente nunca lo vaya a jugar. Me ha gustado mucho las dos historias entrelazadas de Ellie y Abby, te hace reflexionar y ver la otra parte, puedo decir incluso que la historia de Abby me ha gustado más que la de Ellie. El final me ha encantado. En cuanto a duración me parece suficiente, habría quitado algunas partes más repetitivas sobre todo en la primera mitad del videojuego y hubiese acercado la segunda mitad que tiene mucho más ritmo y engancha más. Mi nota es: 9Set-piece sequences, cinematics, animations and overall visuals are truly something to see, the game is simply gorgeous, as expected from Naughty Dog. Unfortunately, there isn't much beyond the eye-candy layer. The gameplay is slightly better than what the previous TLOU offered. Gunplay still feels janky and awkward, enemies are still largely identical, the AI is slightly better (enemies tend to react to you killing someone, but it doesn't force any kind of change in your approach to combat, nor a differing experience). Overall, it still plays like a mediocre stealth game, there are many games that do stealth with much more freedom of agency, tools and progression. The story, while enacted with amazing detail, is really dissonant and sometimes, plain cheap. Characters no longer have relatable motivations and on the rare occasion that they do, it's still not relatable due to plotholes and nonsensical decisions they make. Avoiding spoilers, I'll still say what they did with Joel is one of the cheapest ways I've ever seen writers trying to tear-jerk the player/viewer. You can't simply rely on the established popularity of a character from a previous entry and just decide to do him like filth in the sequel for the sake of doing him like filth in the sequel, to make players feel "sad". Anyone could do that, there's nothing creative about it. The overall "message" of the plot is one we've heard dozens of times before, yes, the cycle of revenge can be a never-ending downward spiral and the writing the game tries to convey this message is petty and suffers from plotholes and facepalm-provoking character choices. Also, aside from the "key" characters from previous game, practically any other character could be replaced with almost anyone at random. They're acting well for most part and they have familiar expressions, but they have no relatable personality or personality traits. The overall level design is pretty good and much more open, though the game let go of the environmental puzzles notable in the studios previous games almost entirely and exploration is rather pointless. Though, I will say that there's still more point to looting than it was in games like Red Dead Redemption 2. Overall, it's not a "bad" game, but a rather forgettable and sometimes boring one, that's longer than it has any right to be. If I pretend that the "shock value for the sake of shock value" moments weren't there, that is.Fairly slick gameplay but the AI is still Neil **** levels of aware, that's to say not very, and that makes the slickness of said game almost meaningless. The story is also weak when you consider the new characters are unlikeable jerks and the old characters might as well be new characters as their decisions are those of characters that I do not recognize. It's obvious there was a narrative that Neil Druckmann wanted to tell about revenge and violence being bad that he insisted we needed for the millionth time. He clearly didn't care about arriving to any events organically and the story is then as subtle as a Nicolas Cage performance.Cuando anunciaron este juego por primera vez tuve mucha preocupación porque podrían arruinar la gran historia que significó el primero, no obstante, era Naughty Dog y ellos no suelen defraudar cuando se trata de una buena narrativa, así que por otro lado tenía emoción por saber como continuaría la historia de Joel y Ellie. Cuando las filtraciones salieron a la luz, mi mayor miedo se hizo realidad, pero luego Neil Druckman salió a decir que esos leaks no eran el producto final y de alguna forma traté de creer que así sería. The last of us II ha sido estrenado y no se debe negar que los aspectos técnicos y visuales son increíbles, se ve espectacular incluso en un PS4 fat; de igual forma la jugabilidad ha mejorado, es similar al primer juego, pero aún más ligero de llevar. Sin embargo, llegamos al punto más importante de este juego, la historia. Los juegos de Naughty Dog son esos en donde el 80% se lo lleva la narrativa, pues te transmiten mucho y te atrapan más en la inmersión. Pero en este juego se olvidaron de todo ello. Para empezar se deshacen de un personaje muy querido como es Joel, y lo hacen de una manera miserable. Joel es capturado, junto a Tommy, luego de confiar en un grupo que no conoce, a pesar que en el primer juego se explica que es una persona muy cuidadosa en ese sentido. Una escopeta le destruye la rodilla dejándolo inmóvil y a merced de un nuevo personaje que hasta ese momento no se sabe quién es y cuáles son sus intenciones. Ellie también es capturada, en su afán de rescatar a Joel y Tommy, y es frente a ella cuando matan a Joel a punta de golpes con un palo de golf. Ese es el detonante de la historia, pero todo esto sucede a las 2 horas de haber empezado el juego, solo 2 horas para ver morir a un gran personaje como Joel. No me cabe duda que él podría morir en esta entrega, pero se merecía un mejor final y no sólo 2 horas y algunos flashback en todo el juego, tal vez debieron mirar y aprender de Rockstar sobre cómo matar a un protagonista. Es entonces que Ellie y Tommy salen en busca de venganza, cada uno por su lado, asesinando casi a medio país en el proceso. Por otro lado, Naughty Dog y Neil Druckman introducen a este nuevo personaje, Abby, la asesina de Joel, y además hacen que sea jugable por cortos períodos desde el comienzo para más adelante pasar a formar parte de una historia mayor en donde conocemos que es hija de uno de los doctores que Joel asesina en el final del primer juego, siendo el motivo que la lleva a hacer lo que hizo. Es en este momento que te das cuenta que buscan que el jugador empatice con este personaje y su comunidad de forma obligatoria, pero es algo imposible luego de ver como ellos trataron a Joel, Tommy y Ellie. No obstante, insisten en contarte y que juegues su historia, historia que no aporta mucho a la trama e incluso se aleja demasiado. Es con este personaje que casi matas a Tommy, pero si asesinas a un amigo de Ellie. Lo peor de todo es el final, pues llegado el momento, Ellie encuentra el momento oportuno para matar a Abby y vengar la muerte de Joel y de todo lo que hizo, algo que el jugador pedía a gritos, pero por alguna razón ella decide dejarla viva y que escape, supuestamente para contar que la venganza no es buena, si claro, luego de haber asesinado a casi medio país como les dije en un principio, es decir, no tiene sentido alguno, pues todo lo realizado en el juego es por nada. En un momento vemos un flashback con Joel y Ellie teniendo una conversación en donde él le confiesa la verdad de lo que hizo en el hospital, pero es un momento agridulce que mereció mayor desarrollo y una respuesta definitiva a la relación padre e hija que tenían ambos, pero es algo que nunca obtendremos, pues en la última conversación que ellos tuvieron Ellie le dice que intentaría perdonarlo, pero no sé encuentra segura. En conclusión, The last of us II es un gran juego a nivel técnico y jugable, pero en cuanto a historia es muy malo, deja mucho que desear e hicieron realidad mis miedos sobre esta secuela, algo que no esperé jamás de Naughty Dog.I bought "The Last of Us 1" and DLC on PS3, bought "The Last of Us 1" on PS4, but this time I bought not a game, but a political statement.. Disappointed.SPOILER FREE I’ll make this short and sweet. Do NOT listen to the negative review bombs. Are there some flaws with the game? Sure. But most of these negative reviews only pertain to the leaks and LGBT story plot points. If you want to base whether to buy a game on that opinion alone, then I feel bad for you. Naughty Dog has found a way to make me switch from caring about the main characters to the actual new characters. I went from being mad, frustrated, etc. at the additional new characters in the beginning, to being frustrated and mad at ELLIE! The way they created this story was almost flawless. The whole time my jaw was hanging open. The game mechanics are a lot more fluid. In the first game, it was kind of clunky, let’s be honest. But the combat is seamless here. Not much else to say. All in all. I was a roller coaster of emotions during my full 32 hours. I couldn’t stop playing. I am sad to see this get so many negative reviews with no basis for the negativity besides homophobic view points and leaked spoilers. Please, if you liked the Last of Us. You HAVE to play this game in its entirety. Thank you Naughty Dog+1. Graphics and sound is really good. Game play is very similar to the first game, with some improvements. Story is the games biggest problem. Its so bad that I wanted to stop playing the game. The ending is so bad it makes playing through the entire game feel unsatisfying and a waste of time.As a game this is above average. The game always gives the feeling that the world is inhabitant and the places visited feel "real". The story on the other hand always feels surreal, character making decisions they wouldn't have in the world of the previous one. The world has been in this state for 24 years. By now only those that have learned to survive, to be decisive and to be viscous, to be conserving and to be cautious are left, they are "the last of us". In this game Joel and Ellie have already found a place to call their home, where they do not have to cautious around everybody and can let their guard down, but they are still aware of the rest of the world and what it means to be out there as they have experienced it for most of their lives, yet they make decisions that even in their rage and blood lust seem more than out of place than ever before. This game has made the commitment to deconstruct Joel as much as possible and telling the player how awful he is or was, ignoring the end of the previous game telling us to decide for our selves. In this game Joel is not portrayed as father who cared about Ellie but as a father paranoid about what would happen to her if people found out about her immunity. In the first one Joel and Ellie chose to not talk about her "condition" and frankly were prob indifferent if people found out. There mindsets have changed just to give players the impression that Ellie is uncomfortable around Joel. This very much is the point i am most disappointed about and the reason i am unhappy about this game. Joel was a monster and nobody denied it, but that was what he needed to be to survive and at the end of the day he was a monster so Ellie could live, but naughty dog changed it from a Father doing anything to save his daughter to a lunatic that killed the last hope of humanity and is a bad father. The only line they delivered perfectly was when Joel was faced by Ellie and he said he would do it all over again. This score is for Joel.Graphics are good but thats to be expected from the 1st game to now but everything else has destroyed. Terrible story, shady tactics by the company. overall game is a shell of what it used to be and what it could have been.I'll make this simple..dont listen to these people hating on this game. They havent played it. This is clear. This game is nothing short of a masterpiece. It IS one of the greatest games of all time. The acting is award worthy. The grapics are almost too realistic. Ive played many games and have never seen graphics look THIS GOOD. The gameplay is greatly improved from the first game. When you kill someone in this game, you feel the weight of it, and I have never felt that in a game before. If you thought the first game was intense, this takes it to another dimension. Now, about those "leaks". Yeah, some of them were true. Yet..it doesnt affect the game. Sorry, not sorry. If you are that affected by "LGBT" or "a tranny with a golf club", youre just ignorant. YOU DONT LIKE THE STORY BECAUSE IT DIDNT GO YOUR WAY! That is all it is. This is a game set in the middle of the end of the world. What did you expect? Sunshine and rainbows? Game is again..a masterpiece. This isnt a debate. Just deal with it.First things first, the story isn’t as bad as the leaks make it out to be. There is a death that is handled somewhat undeserved but that is the only thing story wise that drops this score. The gameplay is very satisfying and melee combat is very gratifying, however brutally realistic to a degree that hasn’t been seen before. Much more smooth and terrifying than the first game. Halfway through this game my actions that felt justified were questioned as I experienced something quite different from the usual formula, but suits this games messaging. And this is a very graphically advanced game, with believable animation. The exploration was actually interesting and rewarding for those who like to search for extra items and stories. There was a point, however, where the story changes drastically and my work felt like it’s reward was delayed. The supposed LGBT agenda is not pushed whatsoever and only mentioned briefly. Overall, the leaks don’t truly show this game’s masterfully crafted world and is definitely worth the time to play. A must buy.7 years of evolution from first part to drop all the pros. Characters, characters interactions, side characters, etc. The only good new mechianc is dogs and they're completely dissapers in second part of the game. Unbelievable fail.They destroyed Joel character and make you play as his killer wtf... Worse writing everCant belive what they did to our characters, i am actually spechless. Let that be a warning for other devolpers, that politics, feminism, and other stuff have nothing to do in a VideogameLoved the first part very much! But this plot and story for the second part? Who wrote this? I dont get it,who wanted this,gamers or some mad feminist? So dissapointed and angry,mixed feelings. You destroyed a beutiful game. Well done NDAbsolutely disgusting game, disgusting people in charge, and disgusting companies giving this game a perfect score. Neil Druckman is the most ego centrical game director ive ever seen and i will never support one of his productsКритики подсасывают разрабам, больше 5-6 эта игра не заслуживает и шедевром точно не является. Графика не очень, стелс тоже. Консоль пыхтит как сучара.La Jugabilidad Es Tan Bella Y Es Simplemente Magnífica, Única Pero La Historia No Esta A La Altura Del Primer The Last Of Us Y Era El Príncipal Punto Fuerte Del Juego, No Me GustoGraphics, presentation, immersion, voice acting all amazing!! Congratulaions naughty dog!! The gameplay and story for me disappoints :( Wait to buy cheaper :)The best game for PS4. Thank you Naughty Dog for create this great game. The history is crude but it's a possible reality, for nice and peaceful histories view Disney+.If you have played the first game and liked it, then most likely you will hate this one. If by chance you have never played part 1 then you might love this game. The story of this game is absolutely garbage. One of the worse games I ever played. Just wow.Müthiş bir oyun. Atmosferi beni büyüledi , grafikler müzikler karakterler çok iyiydi. Gereksiz bir hater kitlesi oyunu bilerek gömmeye calısıyor çoğu oynamamış kişiler zaten ama bu neslin sonuna damga vuran bir oyun oldu.When the E3 2018 trailer for this game came out and showed Ellie and Dina kissing, there was a small yet vocal part of the gaming community upset over this game, because they believed there was an "agenda." Very reminiscent of the Gamers Rise Up group (GRU for short) Some of these people in the GRU were the same ones upset about Nadine from Uncharted 4, they thought Naughty Dog was pushing an agenda because in their mind a woman can't beat a man in hand-to-hand combat, even if she is the leader of a mercenary group. The written leaks (which are all fake with the exception of Joel dying) had everybody in an uproar. These people claimed to be upset about the game, and didn't want to buy the game because they thought the story was bad, which is a clear lie. As evident by the many people that made videos, comments and twitter posts about the leaks, they were upset only for 2 things: the death of Joel and the (false) leak that claimed Abby was a transgender that you play as during the last half of the game to hunt down and kill Ellie. Once GRU got called out for trashing a game for frivolous reasons, they tried to switch up and pretend it was the crunch culture of Naughty Dog that upset them. Many more false rumors came out, about Naughty Dog not paying their employees, and Anita Sarkeesian helping with the game. There were also false rumors about how Neil forced other people out. There has been no proof to back up any of these rumors. As for GRU being upset at Naughty Dog's crunch culture, it's quite clear these people didn't give a damn about that, considering that they sent hate and death threats towards the same people they claimed to feel bad for. Notice how GRU hasn't mentioned the crunch culture at Naughty Dog since April. They hated a game that wasn't even out yet for garbage reasons and tried to pivot. Channels got striked for showing leaked footage and GRU, insistent on seeing this game fail, pivoted towards that being the reason why they hated the game. Another pivot. This angry minority of people in the gaming community began to go on a crusade for months, spoiling the game for other people, sending death threats to people at Naughty Dog, harassing the voice actors and shouting out some pretty vile things towards gay people and transgender people. The reviews come out and GRU called the ones with early copies, shills. They claimed they were on Sony's payroll and wouldn't say anything bad about their games, which is the dumbest thing I ever heard considering the ones that got early copies have been critical towards Sony exclusives multiple times in the past. GRU clinged on to the reviewers that didn't enjoy the game, and used that as more fuel that they were right about the game. Keep in mind, the full game still isnt even out. This game hasn't even been out a full day and it has more user reviews than The Last of Us does, and that game has been out for 7 years. Most of the user reviews are giving this game a straight up 0 out of 10, or a 4 out of 10, and their comments are filled with bs. You can clearly tell in these comments that these people have not played the game, or even seen a walkthrough of the game because they parrot comments from reviewers that were critical on the game, or they get info about the game blatantly wrong. I don't know how anyone can value user reviews after seeing this game is clearly being reviewed bombed by a group of people who have believed since 2016, that Naughty Dog is pushing an agenda. This game is easily the best game I've played all year, will that remain the case after Ghost of Tsushima and Cyperpunk comes out? Idk, but right now it's easily the game of the year. Everything about this game is perfect, I enjoyed the story, but the story is not a perfect. I feel like they could have executed some things a little better, specifically when it comes to Abby. I think after the initial cutscene with Joel giving Ellie the guitar, it should have showed Joel's rampage through the hospital from Abby's point of view. Then hop into Abby getting split up from Owen and then you switch to playing as Ellie. For those of you who have legit concerns and are trying to gauge whether or not to like this game, don't listen to the people spouting hate and writing the game off as having nothing good going for it. But don't listen to the people calling it a perfect game either, because it's not. If you liked the gameplay of the 1st one, you're gonna like the gameplay in this one. And I feel like even if you dont like the story (for legitimate reasons, not because you think an agenda is being pushed) the gameplay will make up for it.Невероятно, непревзойденно, потрясающе — примерно такие мысли роились у меня в голове, когда я с открытым ртом наблюдал за финальными титрами. Знаете, что? Это лучшее, во что я играл. Просто лучшее. Naughty Dog, вы офигели делать такие игры? Что вы творите со своим перфекционизмом? Как мне теперь во что-то другое играть? Я ведь буду ждать такого же уровня исполнения, а его даже близко не будет. 10/10 по всем пунктам без преувеличений. Больше, чем просто шикарная игра. Если вы всем сердцем любите первую часть, то вторая получилась вдвое круче. Не слушайте завистливых и слабоумных хейтеров. Покупайте и наслаждайтесь стопроцентным шедевром. А я, пожалуй, сяду за перепрохождение.The most important part of a game like this, which was also touted, is the story... If this doesnt prove what a HACK Druckman is I dont know what will. Pathetic excuse for a story, pathetic one note characters, and pathetic virtue signaling in hopes of appearing "woke" I assume. Such a disservice to the game and gamers alike.Simply a Masterpiece. Alongside Red Dead Redemption 2, Uncharted 4, Witcher 3 and it's own remastered predecessor one of the very best games of this generation. Once again well done, Naughty Dog!Forced death of Joel and inclusión innecesary, the revenge In the story is odd an innecesaryThis game is straight trash. This leftist, social justice warrior company tried to pander to the brainwashed, retarded leftists in this country and destroyed a wonderful game. F naughty dog. I would NEVER purchase this train wreck of a game.Good graphics✔️ Good soundtrack ✔️ Good acting✔️ Beautiful design for the world✔️ The characters are boring and annoying, especially Abby ❌ Some moments between the characters are stupid and do not support the story For example: Abby sex scene was strange, nothing more After the empty endding the game is meaninglessТвёрдая четверка. На прохождение ушло 22 часа. Годный графон, анимации на высоте. Игра слишком затянута, начал скучать после пяти часов. Сюжет в целом годный, если ты толераст.The story is absolutely garbage demonizes Joel makes him look bad also adding new unlovable characters and no one gives a **** about and the ending is Truly underwhelming and not worth paying full price. Neil **** this one upWith a lot of cut scenes, dialogs, unexpected story events, undesired story events or foreign to gaming agendas. This is still a master piece, a next leap in gaming that will change all other world wide studios’ prospective on how games are made.An amazing game, with emotions punching me left and right. Surprises I never expected. God-tier animations, arguably next-gen. Much improved gameplay over the first one. Did not expect Naughty Dog to have a game on par and exceeded the first Last of Us.Игра разочеровала,разработчики совсем умом тронулись слили Джоила в начале игры да не просто слили а убили как собаку из девченок сделали лизбиянок вы че там курите концовка вообще непонятная диологи вообще говно кто их писал из этого можно сделать вывод что игра не стоит и одного балаFor me personally the story is good, it could’ve been better but it’s still quite good. I think a lot of people started the game with a bad mindset which led to disappointment. 9/10 Graphics, animations 7/10 gameplay, (it got repetitive after a while) 8/10 StoryGameplay is still the same boring thing uncharted did much better. Took months to finish then delayed it to try and make more money. Hope it fails. Druckman fired Amy Hennig for this s*i* What a wasteThe *** are they did with The Last Of Us Part 2? The narrative is poor, conversations between characters are really boring, and the plot / idea looks like was taken from Metal Gear Solid 2... But worst. Graphics are strange, in some areas of the game are good, in other areas looks creepy, is a disaster. The videogames press are STRONGLY bribed putting incredibles scores to this mediocre game.I've play the game for 12 hours so far and it is fantastic, game play is much the same from the first game and story so far is gripping! I love the last of us games!The Last of Us Part II is a cinematic Masterpiece. In classic Naughty Dog fashion the story is unpredictable and takes you on a 30 hour thrill ride as you learn Abbys motivation for killing Joel. I thought this twist was smartly written in a sense that it made me empathize with Abby. Naughty Dog has also out done themselves in terms of Gameplay as the dedicated dodge button and a much more nimble Ellie makes for a far more engaging experience. The Enemy encounters are also much more intense because of this. The level designs are also the best out of any Naughty Dog game. Overall, The Last of Us Part II goes in an unpredictable direction, as its characters, story and gameplay make this another Naughty Dog Masterpiece that never drags or loses focus despite its lengthy run.Revenge story where you don't get to revenge. You kill everybody, except for people who actually wronged you. They get free pass in the name of breaking the violence circle. It's like poetry written by 'roid junkie. Waste of time.Tecnicamente um jogo que beira a perfeição,jogabilidade aprimorada,gráficos e expressões excelentes não posso dizer quanto a história pq só joguei umas 5 horas dela mas está legal tbmThis game is a masterpiece, It's so rare to talk about the human being in a video game, however, the perfect narrative gets supported with perfect graphic, perfect body gesture, and perfect voice actors.It’s a shame the game went that direction.Joel and tommy are survivers for 24 years and said their names to completely strangers like unexperienced naive kids.After that joel gets killed in the most disgusting and dishonest way i have ever seen in a video game.You hunt down the killer of joel but the best part is you play as her too.You finally come to the end to get your revenge only to let the killer live and she bites your fingers off too and now you can’t even play with the guitar anymore what joel gifted you.The whole story is a joke and i hope neil drugmann gets kicked out of the studio he is definetly in the wrong position. Pros:Gameplay is better than the first one Open worldish feeling with a lot more exploration Cons:Story and direction is a mess This game doesn’t honor your beloved characters like joel which players are most related too.Just finished it. Loved it. Beautiful graphics and animation, fun gameplay, Ellie is a badass and I love playing as her. There is a point about 13 hours ish in that something happens and it last to long in my opinion. The whole game could have been cut down by about 6 hours probably and been a little more focused m. Overall I love it and I hope they do some DLC or a 3ed gameDisappointing, disgusting, horrible. Keep your expectations low please. This game never existed for me.The beautiful spirit of the last part has disappeared, so that a part without an identity and a bad story has come, the game has been destroyed in order to please certain parties, this is very odious to sacrifice a beautiful game for things that do not benefit the gameThe game is brilliant, I don't understand the hate. I was also upset to see joel died, but the whole story in my opinion just make sense and create more character development for ellie.Just a terrible story the best parts was the scenes of joel and ellie, the sex scene was very disgusting, in addition you travel all the contrie to kill the responsable and finally you don't because of joel's image what?(but you can kill a pregnant woman ) And you lose 2 fingers so you can't play the guitar that joel gave it to her and by this she breaks the final wit joelOkay first off - I decided to give the game a go even when I read the leaks. The game is stunning on the graphics side but gameplay-wise, it feels the same as the first one and I kept having the feeling that you were always pushed to the next cutscene as this game is really linear. It is really hard to finish as the story gets really depressing and I never felt attached to the new characters. I platinumed the first one and never found the same enjoyment or thrill that I had while playing this one (except for a 10 minute part that took place in a museum - if you played it you know) I don't care for any of the LGBT complaints that you see on the web - the story would still be bad if you took all of this out of there. I was looking for the continuation of one of the best game and story I experienced and this just wasn't it... They even changed characters in some scenes from the trailers and this just made me mad... They really played with my love for this series.I feel like naughty dog is mad at us for liking the first game. The franchise was what it was (before this game) because of the narrative of the first game. Doesn't matter how much you dress up the package with nice graphics and decent gameplay, the core of the experience is the story in the Last Of Us franchise. Naughty dog fails to deliver a story halfway decent compared to the first game. Even if for some reason naughty dog just had to kill Joel off, this has to be worst possible way to do so. What makes this game utterly garbage for me is the fact that you are forced to play as this new character at times which you despise because you liked the first game. The game could have been a lot better (still not the perfect) if you were allowed to play as Ellie alone to hunt down Abby and not have her run over all the characters like a jacked up deranged maniac. I would be happy if this game was erased from the canon and chalked up as a mistake. Naughty Dog forgot the fact that at the end of day, people play games for fun. There are plenty of ways to tell a dark story while ensuring the experience is fun to engage with. This game is not fun, you were correct in saying so Niel druckman. It has no business being an entertainment project.I did not enjoy this game at all. The graphics are great. The gameplay is fine. And the story is a disgrace. Neil forgot what made the last of us so special. The characters.The gameplay and character are amazing, graphics are stunning, in here gameplay also improved, most of the people hate this game because of joel death, anyone don't judge the game because of one characterThe Game is a masterpiece deserves 10/10. amazing story with great direction even if i still prefer the story of the first one but this game is an awesome experience.Absolute disrespect to the first game and its characters. Blatant agenda pushing as far as the eye can see. This game wasn't made for fans of the original, it was a politically charged cringe fest to shove certain ideals down peoples throats, and then berate them if they don't like it. Pass on this and get yourself a few beers or another game. You'll be damn glad you did.it's actually not that bad let alone a 0 these gamer are u know,being a gamer the graphic is gorgeous the gampeplay is good the story is actaully never that bad gamer being so dramatic about it lol i'll give it 80Haber pedazos de ignorantes primero las malas notas uno está por parte de hater a Sony y lo mismo ocurrirá con ghots of tshusima segundo ponen que por la historia ya de una merece un 0 cuando no es así un juego se lo critica tanto narrativa mente y jugabilidad tercero comentan personas que ni siquiera tienen el juego por dios gente estúpida ponen nota baja porque les tocó la moral se merece mínimo un 7 pero le pongo 10 para intentar pelear con los arenosos pazThis game is an absolute garbage in all aspects and definitely it is Failure of The Year This game is an absolute garbage in all aspects and definitely it is Failure of The YearThis game had so much potential but it all went the down drain when Neil Druckmann pushed his ideologies in a game. Story is so bad like it was from a fanfiction, Character Development doesn't improve and Character interactions are bland at best. There are also questionable scenes that should not even be allowed in a game. Gameplay isn't even revolutionary it's just your standard action game. The only redeeming quality of this game is it's graphics and that's it. This game is an insult to the first game and not a worthy sequel. Word of advice save your money for other games.Well I don't know about the perfect scores and 10s, but the only 10 here is the graphics. The story is extremely disappointing and writing is horrible. It's like I'm watching a B-Grade teenage flick. They ruined the old characters and the new ones are not interesting. The only good moments were from the bonding between Joel and Ellie. All in all a very disappointing experience for a game from ND.First of all this game does not deserve a 0/10 even if people disagree or are upset by the story of this game. Clear talent and polished work is obviously visible in this game so to give a 0 just to send a message and boycot a game just makes you uncredible as a review in my opinion. Is this game decisive? Yes! For sure but in my honest opinion this game is masterpeice in every way possible! Try the game for yourself!Right off the bat I'm going to address the elephant in the room. The story is actually awful. You're forced in the first hour of the game to see one of the beloved main characters from the first game die to the villain (who's sexual orientation for me didn't matter but the way they were written did). Then it becomes a revenge story with Ellie but the catch is that the characters around her are forgettable and barely passable for a game of the last of us part 2's expected calibur. The voice acting and motion capture was solid but that's the best I can do. You're then going to end the game poorly with not even killing the character the goal is to get revenge for. The game is full of plot whole also Gameplay is the same as the last game in the most par and I will not review it high for it. It is clunky sometimes in it's ai much like older games. The graphics are phenomenal but we expected them to be.Masterpiece !!!!! advantages: beautiful graphics attention to details This game changed my life. I understand some people only want to play Fortnite, that's fine, but this game is the future of gaming. Character development is quite usual actually. It's nice to play a new game,So this game is VERY OBVIOUSLY getting review bombed. I see review bombing as an extremely distasteful and immature practice... First off, there is NO WAY that this many people finished the game after only being out a few hours (when the negative reviews started popping up), therefore they're basing their reviews off of hearsay, political views and/or very initial opinions at the least - which is not fair. Admittedly I'm only about 5 hours in and I'm working from home if that tells you anything - I gots the time to put in and I've barely grazed the surface. I mean are all these people just like "F$*% it" and staying up to play for 30 hours straight ignoring the rest of their lives? I don't think so... The story-line *5 hours-in* is emotionally charged, the characters are ok - not mind-blowing but also not worthy of a zero... The very first thing that caught my attention is the graphics. Now I'm a PC gamer and I originally only bought the PS4 for Bloodborne. I've come to appreciate the PS4 as it's opened me up a whole new category of PS4 exclusives which are mostly top tier quality games. Within the first 20 minutes I got used to the 24fps @ 4K on the PS4 (down from 144fps @4K on my monster PC) and in all honesty I was pretty blown away... (•_•) ( •_•)>⌐■-■ (⌐■_■) I think the problem of the blatant review bombing stems from within two areas... 1) there have been some leaks and some of these story-based leaks have been extremely unpopular with hardcore fans and 2) The use of LGBT characters is seen by many in gaming culture as a sneaky way of forcing a political agenda onto the audience. This kind of thing definitely happens and it can ruin a game if it's over the top, but IMHO it's NOT the case here. Before even giving the game a chance many stubborn fans are screaming "SJW! SJW!". For myself, I appreciate diversity in both life and in games. I love seeing/hearing a story from someone who doesn't make similar lifestyle decisions as I do or maybe belongs to a subculture that I don't have much knowledge of. It's eye opening and by having some diversity in games it only helps the community. I do admit that I don't like political agendas shoved down my throat either but that is NOT what is happening here. She just happens to be gay, that's it, end of story - get over it. I honestly think that by continuously bringing this up it only makes the gaming community look like we're bigoted/closed-minded and I know that many of us are not. As I stated, I'm only about 5 hours in and I've been trying not to catch any spoilers... I will come back and write an HONEST review once I have finished the game but for now at least, take user reviews with a grain of salt.After 55 hrs to make this beauty 100% platinum what can i say this game is amazing, you need to understand the story to judge it.....its beautiful....next step..... the graphics, the combat, how the blood spreads....the mechanics of this game are awesome everything 10/10 for me plus game of the year, Congratulations naughty dog and sonyIn the beginning i was so excited but when joel died i want nothing but vengeance. First 3 three days are very good but then.. Why i play as mercyless abby. Just why . Her foolish teenager stuff. Relationship with owen. Just feels meaningless. When she beat the hell up ellie. I was so angry. Why GAme forces us for playing as abby. Joells killer. Story is just poor . Its betrayel to the last of us, joelThe story here is awful. Gameplay is very much the same as it was in TLOU. Which is fine. To be honest, no one loved the first one because of the gameplay, it was the story. The game works. It looks amazing, no bugs or glitches. Great work as far as making the game. Now the story is trash. The TLDR: Joel dies. And not in some sacrificing for the power of love type of way. Just beat in the head with a golf club. Ellie and friends go for revenge. They all make stupid decisions and die. You play as Abby and beat the crap out of Ellie and her girlfriend. As Ellie you save Abby and get beat up again. You get 2 fingers bitten off and your relationship with your girl is destroyed. You go through all of this, just to let Abby live. WTF. At least have the balls to follow though at this point. Ellie goes the whole game murdering people and animals left and right, just to not kill the bad guy. And yes I consider Abby the bad guy. I don't have any sympathy for her. Blame it on the storytelling. And if you think this is what people wanted or this is what we deserve you need to take a long look in the mirror.Игра красивая и графонистая, но сюжет полный кал. Революционных новшеств в механике нет, графон продвинутый уже мы видели в rdr 2, думал сюжетная часть интересная будет. Просидает фпс даже на ps pro. Везде ЛГБТ посылы, слили главного героя вначале, страшные женщины, трансгендеры в игре похожие на горилл. Просто взяли и плюнули в лицо фанатам, не такого мы ждали... Очень любил первую часть, прости Джоэл мы все просрали. Еще пиарят и рекламируют этот ужас в игре, очень большие чемоданы sony потратили на журнализтов и реклам компанию. Нил Дрюкман иди в сраку со своей СаркисянNan très surpris pas le scénario la trame de l'histoire comment il nous la raconte visuellement magnifique. Apres je peux comprendre que bcp de personnes n'aime pas surtout le début du jeu est très dure ..... mais le studio a eu qd meme les couilles de le faire !!Total **** show, i would give this game pass if elie went dark and killed all these pieces of **** especially that child that abby protected and of course here herself, but to go on killing spree and not to kill you main nemesis......is like being spit on your face, ending makes no sense Joel killed her father she killed him, Elie killed true the game more than 100 of here people and Abby is like who cares about them we are good.... The story is just bad, you can make **** look like most delicious meal but if its **** you ain't gonna eat it even if its presented by world class chef.Joel survived for 24 years in the post apocalyptic world, has so much experience surviving, yet they TRUST strangers and reveal their name. They ruined the game.Terrible plot. They would not try to expand their town in the first place.The Last of Us 2 was probably the most disappointing game I've ever played to this day. The gameplay and graphics are really good but you have to understand this is a sequel, not a new IP. The story of this game is absolutely disgusting and stupid which disrespects the previous game in so many ways. I'm definitely going to return the game and I really can't recommend it to anyone.It looks great but the story is awful. I feel like I'm having SJW/LGBTQ rammed down my throat. I've no problem with either but am glad the leaks warned me ahead of purchase. I think the first game will forever hold a place in my heart and definetly feel let down by the second. This is certainly not the direction I would of liked to see the story go. I've rated it a 5 out of 10, a 5 for the graphics but a 0 for the story. What a shame.Impressionante o quanto este jogo me cativou. O rumo que a história foi tomando te prende cada vez mais, não dá vontade de parar de jogar. Rumo à platina.Another huge disconnect between the public that plays these games, and the "journalists" that are paid to give a perfect score. You're not fooling anyone with your "IGN 10/10". Treat this "game" as a wallpaper generator and you've got your partial money's worth(stunning visuals; hi5 to all the poor workers that were forced to work grueling hours to help this steaming pile see the light of day), anything beyond that and your disappointment will be monumental. Neil, I know you were hoping for a perfect score from the people that weren't paid to review it, but you ended up with 3.4(so far, hopefully hitting that 0 mark soon). I hope we subverted your expectations too. Rest in pepperonis, TLOU franchise.For me, a game is a fun gameplay and a solid story... I can't care less about graphics...just finished the last of us part 2 after replaying the first one to refresh my memory on the amazing story anticipating a continuation to the cliff hanger at the end and generally to see more of the amazing duo Ellie and Joel...well I didn't get that...not even a comparable story in quality... Story, The ugly: 0 I see what they were going with it but they flopped terribly in the execution it's infuriating...I mean who tf wrote this? A teenage intern? I really have nothing more to say without spoiling...there is a ton of other games with silly stories and who reads this must have seen a movie or played a game with bad writing that goes nowhere but this time the story was perfect and the sequel ruins everything (take Game of Thrones season 8 as an example)... To put it in one sentence: compared to the first one it gets a zero from me nothing more sadly. Gameplay, The bad: 6 The gameplay is the same with some refinements...it still is clunky and last-gen just looks cooler so a 6 I guess... Graphics, The good: n/a The graphics are very good...I really don't care though..oh character design is somehow worse than the first one... The last of us gets a 3 from me...oof it's physically painful to say this out loudJust Awful. Destroyed the legacy. Its not a game its an interactive propaganda.From a gameplay perspective it's really good game and visually it's nothing short of a masterpiece but I can't I'm really disappointed with the story. I can understand killing Joel but why do they make you play as Abby for half of the game? It isn't a bad story by itself it just doesn't make sense if you have played the first game. Still I'd say it's a game worth playing even if just for the gameplay and level design.I am big fan for the last of us 1 but part 2 it is big shame make me sick doesn't deserve to buy the game also Neil have mentality issue and he but it in the game also the story all about lesbeinFinished the game. Played for the whole week end. Now I can say: graphics and gameplay are top notch. Amazing. But the plot of this game it's incredibly stupid and boring. The worst plot ever created for a videogame. The last chapter and the end of this game is even worse. Characters and plot are upon the stupid. A videogame with great graphics and gameplay (thanks only to nd's graphical artists and coders ) wasted by a stupid plot written by a very bad writer.Let's support the developers, they now lack this and support for: Pro-labor brutality and the smallest details. The plot is not bad, the gameplay has not changed much. And the summons, well, it didn't bother me.One of the most disappointing sequels in video game history, if you enjoyed the original game for its characters and story then this game will not be for you, if you disliked the nonsense plot of Star Wars The Last Jedi or the lazy writing of game of thrones season 8 then once again, you will be disappointed playing a game that takes the story in narrative directions that should never have left the writers room, the game is FILLED with unlikable petty characters who are forced down your throat as the game tries make you sympathize with them while also spitting on the beloved characters of the original in the name of SUBVERSION. The game is simply just substanceless misery porn that employs cheap shock tactics to make the player feel sad and angry although it will probably just leave you disappointed and confused in the end because it is one of the most anti-climactic stories I have ever witnessed in any medium.S*** story with agenda behind it the gameplay is good but it's similar to the the first one after you finish it you feel so lost and not engaged with this this poor writing story and character and there choices and motivationThis is a how the gender ideology destroy another thing.. This was one of the most waiting games. But when you want to force add some external ideas to a game you will destroy the good things. Anita Sarkeesian put her hands on the game script forcing to be a lesbian story trying to “educate “ about external and not related topics. This should be a game not a political thing.This is the last time I buy a Naughty Dog game. Disgusting treatment of beloved characters - Imagine if the next Zelda game has Gannindorf kills Link in the worst way possible, spits on his corpse, and then forces you to control Gannondorf to hunt and kill Zelda. If this childish effort at writing is the direction that Sony is heading for PS5, then I will be seriously considering dropping out of consoles altogether. For context I'm a 43 year old man with a decent income that spends a lot of money on games and really do not like seeing what is happening with gaming at the moment. Get rid of these childish writers that do things for likes on Twitter and start entertaining gamers again.I hope Neil resigns. The game industry does not need the likes of him. Absolutely a disgrace of a game. I do not care if a game has the best graphics ever, if the story is bad there is nothing saving it.So funny that just IGN Japan wrote professional honest review on a game. Im not against the teenager's ideas of this crap with good graphics. It just need more talented writers, like in RDR 2. American games from a masterpieces became sjw twits. Wasteland 3 postapocalypse is more real than this untalented crapThis is an abomination in compare to the first game and a lame attempt of Neil Drunckman to force his agenda!No justice is given to joels death and you play the half game as that guy abby??!?!on top of that you dont kill abby in the end!!!Naughty dog is done after that.The gameplay is an upgraded version of the part 1. It integrates a few new features like dodging and crouching and creeping (and you are still 100% available to do things while doing it). You can upgrade your character and your weapons, (as you can on the previous game). The graphics are very good and the animations are gorgeous. ¿Why i'm giving it a 2 then?... Because of the story... That fk piece of s*** caused me to hate this game and it took away all my craving for replaying it. The ending is just a part of the problem, and not the problem itself. The game tries to represent that "vengance is bad"... But let me be clear. It tries to do that by not taking revenge against someone that already took revenge... With Joel, killing him at the start of the game. Don't take me wrong, Joel had it coming from what he did on the previous game, but doing the people wait YEARS to kill the protagonist of the previous game at the start of this game... It's just a nonsense. I'm gonna talk about how this game tries to convince you of not taking revenge because vengance is bad and nothing good comes from it. Ellie does not kill the assassin of Joel, (which was Abby). But does not matter if she does or doesn't kill Abby, the plot hole is still there. How so?... Well Abby took revenge of Joel, and Ellie didn't with Abby... That means that nothing bad came from Abby's vengance, woohoo -> Plothole (since nothing bad came from vengance). Now lets think on the hypothetical situation of Ellie taking revenge on Abby and killing her... Now Abby's dead, woohoo -> Plot hole, since nothing bad came from vengance. Now lets think on the other hypothetical situation... Abby takes revenge on Joel and Ellie takes revenge on Abby... BUT, then the partner of Abby wakes up from the boat and kills Ellie, and nothing bad happens to him, woohoo -> Plot hole again, since nothing bad came from vengance. It doesn't really matter what you do, vengance it's still there and the plot hole too. What the **** they are actually trying to represent with "vengeance being bad". (Also, Ellie didn't took revenge on Abby and still lost her girlfriend by trying to do it... Oh, and two of her fingers too, preventing her from playing the guitar song that Joel teached her). Now im going to actually enumerate which contributions this game does to the "The last of Us" Universe. Ready? - Joel dies. - Tommy (Joel's brother) gets blind from an eye. - Ellie's friend Jesse dies. - Ellie's girlfriend Dina almost dies, and breaks with Ellie leaving her. - Ellie loses 2 fingers. * (An everything it's caused by Abby, the one that Ellie let go unpunished). Wow, awesome!, I can't wait to play this game again and revive all this beatiful moments!. ########################################### - This is the case in wich doesn't matter AT ALL if the game it's a 10 on gameplay, mechanics, animations, and soo... Because the story it's SO SO SO Fu***ng bad!, that now i'm completely disgusted with it and I prefer to thinkg that it got cancelled and never came out. (Now to play The last of us 1, to actually revive beatiful moments).что и требовалось доказать, SJW сгубили продолжение одной из лучших игр прошлого/текущего поколения консолей, сюжет и геймлей крайне скучен, персонажи все превратились в мешки с фекалиями, ну и конечно сильные независимые женщины везде, а эта сцена с Эбби, господи, чуть не сблевалAmo el primer juego y amo esta segunda parte, bien es cierto que hay momentos un tanto tediosos, pero consigue enganchar y mantenerte en tensión. No juzguéis y disfrutarlo. La historia pese a lo que sucede es muy buena, y quien diga lo contrario es solo por rabia.Absolutamente incrível, apenas é um dos melhores jogos que eu já joguei em toda a minha vida, e olha que eu jogo videogame desde a época do super nintendo.This is a complete spit on the face to all the fans of this beloved franchise, this game it compares to the Disney Starwars sequels and Games of Thrones season 8. I don’t why corporations like this pander to sjw audience when they don’t even bother to buy games unlike us fans that we love this gamesBruh i didnt sign up for transexual porn stop pushing agendas you west coast entitled freaks trans women like looking like women this is just an insukt down by a bunch of racist liberal white assesWe haven't had such a gaming experience here yet! Absolutely brilliant game. Overall, the game looks like one huge work of art. It would be hard to find a mistake in the game. Amazing ..Lacrador e Patético. Nunca pensei que esse era Possível cagar em um Jogo tão Hypado! Pena que eu estava erradoIt's bad enough that as a mature male adult I have no playable characters to draw me into this game, and not allowing me to easily skip through the horrendously boring Teenage lesbian woke scenes is simply unforgivable.Esse jogo é Horrível e violento e tenso e intenso e maravilhoso e real, bonito, feio, aterrorizante e encantador, real, humano e EXCELENTE! Mas com um final meio ruim, mas n merece todo esse Hate, é sim um jogo incrivel só pelas horas de Gameplay e a tensão adicionada ao enfrentar infectados já me agradam!Only buy this game if you want solid gameplay and ambientation, don't buy it for the story because it total garbage. I'm returning this game tomorrow. The platinum is easy but it's a pain having to play as abby for 25 hours total 1,3 playthroughs).В игре хороша только графика, всё остальное хлам, бесполезный стелс, бесполезные прокачки оружия, опять игра про записки. Серия закопана разработчиком каждым решением сделать что-то в игре.Excelente en todos los aspectos, música, gráficos he historia. Obra maestra de naughty dog nuevamente, lastima que esté sufriendo de review bombing por los hater de Xbox, PC Y NINTENDO porque no puedan disfrutar de un juego así. Una lástima que se lo pierdanControls seem to lag although that might be because I'm playing in 4k It's not true to the original and there's large plot holes and the graphics are downgraded from the trailers they might as well have just made a different game since most characters look so different than the first part,.Shooting feels clunky and the game have long stretches of boring talkin add cutscenes to the mix that shortens the gameplay notably,story wise is another pretentious hipster trash,graphics are beautiful like most interactive movies ,the game is not for everybody if you are a fan of the series you might break your controller.there are pregnant women climbin on fenses while other is smokin weed while pregnant,a character comesbak to live after being shot in the head (tommy)trees that take 20 years to grow are on the street and there havnt been not even 15 years+ graphics, some really beatiful moments and twists + Joel playing Guitar - gameplay is still same maybe even worse then previous game nothing special , AI is still terrible - story - unlikable characters - characters behave like idiots because of plot - endingJogabilidade 10/10 Gráficos 8/10 História 3/10 por causa da temática LGBT, morte ridícula de joel e ataques religiosos e piadinhas sobre preconceitos. Média 2.1 mas vou dar um 0Joel no debía morir, vine a hacer mi descargo. Muy mala decisión eso empaña TODO lo bueno , en que estaban pensando? Y además de forzar el lesbianismo, que terrible que sean hipócritas y se unan a la moda, que sigue? Apoyar la pedofilia? La necrofilia?Es un videojuego increíble Tanto la narrativa o la jugabilidad y el apartado técnico es abrumador , los gráficos y las animaciones impresionan mucho y la banda sonora y el diseño de los niveles están a otro nivel , los npc se portan mejor que nunca y la inteligencia artificial apunta muy alto , el sigilo me encanta , para mi es el mejor juego de la generación y el mejor gráficamente felicito a naughty dog por las decisiones que han tomado y por la valentía para hacer ese tipo de juego y por el trabajo que han hecho Bravo !!A love a good revenge story, this one however feels very loose and brings in a bunch of unlikeable characters. What made TLOU so likeable is the story and bond between Joel and Ellie. It's a story that only Ellie could have had in the world. This story practically takes a **** on the original story. Gameplay is good for what it is, jump button is stupid. May as well just add in a ledge based system that makes it so the character will automatically jump. Animations are of superb quality. Graphics are amazing. I've not finished it yet. But it feels like a chore doing so. But this game isn't meant to be fun, it's the message it sendsI just don't like Neil Druckmann and how he thinks that he is so much better than anyone else because of his new-found ideology. He needs to grow up and realize that boasting about being 'woke' is an immature thing to do. Also after hearing about how the people working at Naughty Dog were treated I had to do my part in giving Naughty Dog what they deserved.Gameplay Is so Good But Stories is really bad...that's Awful and ending is so bad I can't believe that after Years,I am very sad that my favorite game was ruinedThe game deviates from the very essence of the first game. What they have made to the character is unacceptable. Plot is very weakly written and its only made to support their agenda. Only positives in this game is the gameplay elements and graphics which gives the glimpse of next-gen. Naughty Dog needs a redeem themselves l.The first game was my favourite game of all time so I didnt expect the sequel to improve that but boy I was wrong it's an absolute masterpiece that has completely blown me away. They sumhow managed to improve every aspect of the first and its surprising a game can look so good on a ps4Прошёл за 2-а захода по 8 и 15+ часов на сложном, сейчас прохожу на платину без подсказок из инета. Геймплей: Боёвка - Понравилось добавление лайк Солус механики в плане тайминга уворотов. Не понравилось вытекая из этого же, упрощение геймплея. Пропала хардкорность и страх перед мобами. Теперь умереть в основном можно только от большого кол-ва врагов или нелепости. Лутание, квесты и пространство: Стало всего больше, но распределено местами не пропорционально, из-за этого в некоторых местах хочется подзевнуть. В 1-ой части всё было компактнее и следовательно интенсивнее, скорее всего из-за ограниченности PS3. 8 из 10 Визуал + звук: Уровень художников и проработка мелочей зашкаливает, особенно поразили тени и свет... на PS4 такое... Лицевые анимации лучшие в игровой индустрии. На PS4 slim фпс в некоторых местах проседает до 10-15, но в основном стабильные 30. Звук также потрясающий, стерео на максималках. Жалко что только гитару на 3-ей план разместили... 10 из 10 Сюжет: Ощущение, что писали нейросети)) Как вызвать максимальную драму? Убить любимого персонажа. Как придать мотивацию ГГ убивать и двигаться вперёд? Заставить мстить. Какая модная повестка в геймдеве? Борьба за права меньшинств. В 1-ой части был мощный понятный всем твист, ради которого вся игра и строилась. В данной части твисты заключаются в понимании мотивации персонажей... думаю большинство их даже не заметят))) Вообщем сюжет не для всех, который скорее всего и был создан для разделения аудитории. 6 из 10. Итого моя общая оценка игры: 8+10+6/3 8 из 10An absolute character assassination. The decisions Ellie, Joel and Tommy make completely out of character just for that sake of driving this petty plot forward. Though the graphics, acting and overall detail on this game are the best there is, gameplay feels the same as it's predecessor that came out 7 years ago.Gameplay and visual is absolutely stunning and deserve some props but man the story is trash, they tried to be "realistic" and "edgy", there is no bond in characters in this sequel even with the main one from the previous gameAfter just finishing The Last of Us I will keep this as spoiler friendly as possible. The Last of Us 2 at times with it’s graphical presentation and ultra smooth control can be awe inspiring. The attention to detail that was so evident with the first returns in some of it’s sprawling environments. Naughty Dog should be commended for that. Character models are top notch and the sound is the type of quality you expect from Naugthy Dog. Where the game falters is in its story telling, pacing and the overall direction of its character development. There is not one like able character to be had in this story. Everyone even the main character of Ellie is portrayed as being wholly monsters and for some of the previous characters who were established and beloved in part one they make choices that are counter to everything we know them to be. Many choices taken by them serve to only push the next plot point forward regardless if its something they actually would have done which is a huge no-no when it comes to writing well thought out character development. Quite Frankly the handling of the legacy characters of this franchise leaves much to be desired and thats my main take away. The last of Us 2 leaves a lasting feeling of leaving to much to be desired, things you felt never should have happened to or with the majority of its cast. Where as the first game had little rays of hope and light in this game there exist none. Its one bleak depressing slog from start to finish. Playing as the games new co protagonist Abby was one of my personal worst experiences in gaming after some of the egregious acts she partakes in. The continued forcing to switch to her really hurt my overall gaming experience. I simply did not like this character for her actions and there was nothing that could make me like her after what she does. She came across as the games clear cut villain and it was never going to go over well with the majority of gamers to be forced to play with her in this game. She will go down as one of the most polarizing hated characters in gaming history. Overall The Last of Us 2 outstanding presentation, accessibility, and character design can not make up for such a poorly executed story. I wanted to love this game as much as I did the first but I just generally had one of the worst game experiences of my gaming lifetime.At least some of the critic reviews were honest about how bad the writing in this game is. The rest of them are just giving into the BS that Naughty Dog put out in statements before the game was released. The studio lied to fans for months saying that the leaks weren't true and that the story would honor Joel and Ellie. Funny, I didn't realize that honoring Joel meant completely changing everything about his character in the first hour of the game by having him and Tommy talk to complete strangers about where they were living, offering supplies and saying who they were without hesitation. Fans deserved better than this. So thanks Naughty Dog for not only "Honoring Joel and Ellie" but the fans as well with this ridiculous story. It could have been so much more and now you've lost the respect of nearly all of your fan base.As a fan of the first game, I'm sad to say that this game is a terrible sequel, while the graphics were amazing and world design is very well put together, the story couldn't keep me engaged and the characters felt like needless props half the time, to put it in the simplest of terms this whole game is like throwing 2,500$ rims(graphics and world design)on a piece of crap car(story and character development) it stands out sure but if its intended purpose fails to meet its expectations then it's worth nothing at all, I would not recommend this game to anyone who's a fan of the first game or anyone looking for a engaging story, but I will recommend it to ppl looking for a game that will put them to sleepAfter waiting 7 years I need to say ... Graphics are good , enemy AI in my opinion dumber that in the first part ... In this age we have a lot of games with good graphics... This is just not good enough ... The story is superficial, forced to promote real life ideology... This should be entertaining and rewarding experience...the strong part of the first episode was the story . That is gone ,poor writing,akward interactions between protagonists. I have serious doubts to invest again in naughty dog ....if I want political agendas pushed down on my throat I turn on my TV news ... Not my gaming unit ....Do not be fooled by the paid-off journalist "critics". This game is a disappointment in every sense of the word. The gameplay is generic without any innovation. The same old stealth and shooting mechanics that we've seen in countless other titles. The story is a mess that feels like it was written by an edgy teenager. The dialogue tries too hard to come off as profound but ends up just feeling lackluster. All this game really has going for it are the visuals. I will definitely not be buying other games made by Naughty Dog after this travesty.like a big fan of the first game and from the uncharted saga I feel very hurt for how the new release bash everything .naughty dog they have no respect to the fanbase, to the youtubers who gave their humble opinion.that they have all the right for the freedom of speech. which they demonized blocked and abused their DMCA power as a company.but above all to the characters that are not themselves are an empty shell of their previous. how to continue a sequel when you didn't need the last of us 2 .is a simple revange game that is graphically spectacular but its empty shell. The good photo realistic models of characters the diversity and density of the scenery The levels of detailed as we will remember in uncharted 4 the light . the water . the sky boxes the bad the massive plot holes The extremely brutality violence Neil Druckmann's wet dream male to male / female face intercourse the nonsense ending that in the entire campaign you are waiting for at last to get revenge and you do not do it despite the fact that he slaughters joel with a golf club. shoots tommy in the head and leaves him crippled forever .he breaks both elies arms he or she beats the **** out of dinas without any remorse and almost cuts his throat off .bite elie's fingers off and the end ist no problem goodbye. lets him escape that's the end all for nothing Remember the talks with elie when we met the giraffes when we were hanging upside down and our little girl saved our lives on more than one occasion when she takes care of us he like joel loses a daughter but he finds and adopts elie the beautiful ending and the unexpected twist that's why the last of ous 1 was incredible a masterpiece not because elie was gay Because the incredibly realistic and well flesh out characters that seemed human an incredible story tellingcame back to this game after playing the first part expecting the best experience..then guess what SJW's conquer every space that i retreat to.. kills our games hero (male in general + white person + being straight is a SIN) write a complete joke story and push an agenda down our throat.. I wish people will voice their opinion and make games what they used to be.. THIS GAME WAS A WASTE MONEY AND TIME FOR ME.. GIVE 1 JUST FOR THE GRAPHICS QUALITYStoryline is rubbish. I can’t connect myself to the characters and the game is just going forward and backwards. I felt empty at the end. First one is brilliant with a lots of humour and relationship development but this second one it’s full of hatred and dark.In all my life of gaming I haven't dealt with such a cliche story with nonsense sprinkled in as a poor attempt to “subvert expectations.” In my mind, the great reviews from all of these companies have been bought out or were formed from sympathy over the leaks that obviously annoyed the community. I played through the game since midnight launch and the story was nowhere near the impact of the first game. There were shoehorns, forced representation that didn't fit the game, a nonsense death of Joel that was reminiscent of if a storm trooper just hunted down and killed Luke Skywalker at the start if the Empire Strikes Back for the destruction of the death star. Political correctness is a cancer that ruined this game along with bad writing and poor lore decisions that feels like a slap in the face to every fan of the original game. It’s hilarious that Naughty Dog was phenomenal with the Uncharted series from beginning to end but let their biggest title slip this hard. The only redeeming quality is some of the gameplay is pretty fun but even then its pretty bland and uninspired. Im deleting the game and never playing it again and I hope many people will read this and decide to not put themselves through the effort this game takes.I prayed you wouldn’t destroy this game naughty dog. I had a feeling but I still hoped. The games graphics are the ONLY thing this game has going for it. The last of us was beloved by gamers like myself because we connected with the characters and we loved them. We loved how a man who lost his daughter gained a daughter in Ellie. We loved the dynamic and how they interacted with each other. I for one would have doomed the world to save Ellie regardless of any choice. That’s how much I loved her and loved how much Joel needed her. You butchered everything that meant in the last of us 2. The comment I read in one of these reviews said it best. This is the last Jedi. Y’all have gone off on a political agenda. Being woke is more important than good story telling. You failed at everything in tlou2 that made the tlou1 as great as it is. These reviews are not bots but a reflection by the fans on this sh.. show. So sad. Was so hoping you’d have made another great game. What a disaster. Ps if your graphics weren’t as good as they are I’d have given y’all a 0.*Honestly this game is not for fans of the relationship between Joel and Ellie,* this game totally destroys that and it changed it into something unrecognizable for The Last Of Us,* Game play and Graphics are normal, but story is not worth the seven years wait.*Compared to first "The last of us" game, this one absolutely disappointed in every way possible. All that this game has massively improved on are graphic and they way player can alter difficulty of the game to their liking. That's pretty much it. Gameplay, story, characters, enemy AI, infected, puzzels... everything lacks quality. It's a solid 4/10 game, maybe a generous 5 at best, however.. considering how bad Naughty Dog treated their employees so that 70% of workers left, considering the abuse of copyrights system on YT, considering how they mislead people with fake teasers/trailers, considering how they ban people on twitter and reddit for memes, considering how they disrespect and spit on their fanbase. This is a 0/10 game. People should avoid this game and avoid to suppord Naughty Dog at all cost. This was supposed to be the game of the year.. but it ended up being a internet meme. Something for real gamers to laugh at.Really bad. The first game was fun to explore. I loved finding all of the comic books and waiting around to listen to Ellie’s terrible jokes. It was a story about people trying to still be human in a post-apocalyptic world. I could connect with those characters. The sequel has none of that charm. I just didn’t have fun slogging through the game. It felt like a chore. I felt the same way with the later installments of The Walking Dead game, so maybe it’s just me. Also, they made a really long game, but took out Factions. Not a good trade. They should have cut this in half and made a decent multiplayer mode.Critics don't know anything I don't know why they decided to rate the game what it wasn't. I guess this is what access media is I will never take them seriously ever. Game looks amazing pass that the gameplay is mediocre which honestly this would all be okay if they decided to put more into the story instead they ruined the story completely. No one played The Last of US to have the characters die. Naughty Dog know they were misleading the fans to thinking we would be able to play along side and even get to be Joel. Instead Neil Drunktard wrote directed played and even **** quite literally the game. He should never touch another game ever. This will not go down as a great game that The Last of US was they should remake it call it The Last of US: re and have Ellie wake up to a nightmare as a teen and go from there. Have a play as both Ellie and Joel and introduce a new character and make it a game with multiple ending their I fix it Naughty Dog bring back Bruce Straley to fix this **** Lastly make improvements to the gameplay. Gameplay 5/10 Graphics 10/10 Animations 10/10 Replay None Story 5/10 (cause of its plot wholes and fillers 12 hours of pointless fillers)False advertising. Being woke. Treating the protagonist like garbage. You name it. I don't like it at allGran juego y que los pileros sigan con el indi de las hormigas, xD lo bueno de esto es que por fin desaparece xbox con la próxima generación como le paso a Sega.I gave this game a 3 as the gameplay and graphics are really good. I managed perhaps a little over halfway then stopped through the game I am not sure if I should bash on and compleat it but I feel like such a sociopath playing Abbi. The main issue I have is the story, It is just terrible and really detracts from any enjoyment did ND forget that games are for enjoyment and entertainment? Perhaps. I Get they went for the not fun approach and wanted to go down the grim dark route. The way old characters are portrayed or have their story lines end I think was a choice given to cheep shock factor or a copy cat of walking dead but carried out and executed very poorly. The new character Abbi has been made a bit of a Mary Sue the story tries Really hard to encourage you to relate too or like her but this is I fear imposable given her actions and arrogance. Other characters do not so much brake character as completely smash it and give no good reason as too why. The story is also confusing jumping between flashbacks Ellie and Abbi. There is also a horrid sex scene that makes you feel awkward and a little disturbed. Over all I would not recommend this game to anyone. Update: Now I have finished the game. The story just did not improve and the ending was extremely unsatisfying. Don't bother trying to stealth your way through and you are pretty much scripted to get into to much ****Joel died because he had to, maybe all of you didn’t realize that he was de enemy of the entire planet with a simple lie to the savior who had the cure, he went against the will of Ellie and kill innocents in the midway I obviously would have chosen the same but is wrong thing ‘cause we r thinking with the heart and not with the head.I love the 1st game so much, the father and daugther relationship between joel and eli. In this game i love the graphics, the sound, the voice acting, its almost a perfect game if you think of it if they make the story so good just like the 1st one i would rate it 10, The characters in this game is unlikeable and you cannot relate to them, i hate the story specially the ending And i think this game doesn't deserve a higher score and dont understand why ign and some corporate reviews give this a perfect score I am dissapointed in this game it's like tlj againGame mechanics are awesome: ability to sneak in grass, crafting table (pistol silencer, optic sights), partial open world. I love the way player need to scavenge to create better equipment, to find collectibles, etc. This is positive points in this game. And that's it. Nothing more. At all. They totally f****d up the story. In the begin game gave to you motivation to fight, motivation for revenge. And, when you think you are going to take, what you want, they said: "Wait! Play another f****g character. That one, who killed the main character of previous game." I'm talking about Abby. I don't know about other people, but I did not feel sympathy for this character. I wanted only one: to skip second part of the game and go to the end, when Ellie will revenge for Joel. In TLOU we don't have any LGBT stuff, in DLC they said that Ellie is part of this community. Honestly I don't see anything, that will point at this (even when silly little schoolgirls, who don't understand anything in feelings yet, kissing each other), but if developers decide so - as you wish. But TLOU2 has whole LGBT post-apocalyptic world. The world is dying and the only thing that is important, by thoughts of developers, is same sex relationships?! WTF?! And during whole game they pointing with this. Pointing, pointing, POINTING! You are such an annoying ass, Naughty Dog! You f****d up! Many players and me are disappointed. You killed Joel so cruel way and I will never forgive you.Só pra dizer. Quem lacra não lucra. Tirar um dos melhores personagens já feitos no início do jogo pra dar espaço pra um romancezinho meia boca, pra nas entrelinhas fazer discurso político é o cúmulo. Vocês não precisavam fazer essa palhaçada, simplesmente não dá vontade de jogar pois a história não consegue entreter o suficiente pra superar o choque que que o início causa. Bah tá loucowha a legit terrible game. Graphics are amazing. Gameplay is fun! The story and narative is I think the worst sequel story I have ever seen. It's actually how sad this game actually is. I hope naughty dog learns from this in there next game because they have wrecked one of the best IP's of all time.Please just save your money. Please. This game is HORRIBLE I'm honestly speechless at how had it is. Yeah good graphics woohoo, but story? Yeah dont count on it. I can not believe ND would even do this to their fans and how Neil Druckman still has a job? Its beyond me.I love this game so much not just because of that I love lthe last of us 1, because it’s full of surprises, its show you Love, passion, anger, revenge,... All I want to say, Why do some critics give this game low scores and criticize the game?Beautiful sound and graphics, average gameplay that brings nothing new and really bad story. There are lots of plot holes and no character development. It'd be an OK game if it were from some new IP. It's really painful to see what they have done with Joel and Ellie just for shock factor.Прекрасная работа всех специалистов, которые работали на визуальной частью и звуковым оформлением. Но, то что сделали с сюжетом, историей — это боль.Absolutely no way near what i exspected the game will be, sionist devil worshipers faith is behind ruining this story, i mean killing joel the best actor in the history of video games to introduce an extremely unlikable freak of nature in a horrible way, that just wipe out all the good memories about the last of us, stopid sionist nel need to be kicked out by sony with 0 hesitationThis game is a gold standard for these so-called movie games,while initially I did have some problems with the story,It clears out If you stick to it till the end,the game does everything it can to make this videogame space a compelling place for a certain message,as usual,as it is an ND game,Graphics,animations and every technical aspect is top notch to say the least. If you are a fan of the first game,I would say that you must play it till the end for the entire context of the story,If you were not a fan of the first game,then make a decision by reading and listening to other reviews,and not just follow this sheep-ish mob-like mentalityAun no entiendo que pretendían al sacar al mercado un juego que no cumple con las expectativas de sus usuarios. Un juego que se pasa por la faja los afinidad que sentimos con Joel en la primera entrega. El impulso de idiotez de dar un mensaje progresista no supone un riesgo que hay que aplaudir, no, no se confundan; solo es la nefasta tendencia de querer agradar a todo el mundo menos al jugador, una tendencia que se repite, la mala costumbre de estos tiempos: inculcar su ideología basura, una absurdo mensaje político que ni siquiera es sutil y que queremos mantener lejos de nosotros a la hora de sentarnos frente a nuestra consola. En definitiva, un pésimo juego.This game is very old gameplay mechanics, seems to play to the first assassin's creed is not a 2020's game. Ugly animation, ugly fight combat, boring stealth section crafting is the same of the first game ..........Incredibly terrible story, literally writes the original characters into being morons and villains to push a narrative. That narrative being "revenge cycle is bad". They take this to an extremely stupid place, with Joel dying and Ellie murdering all of Abby's(child of an NPC in first game that golf clubs Joel) crew, only to suddenly realized revenge isnt worth it after Tommy is shot, she loses everything to include 2 fingers and already killed people far more innocent then Abby to just let her live. It then ends on a weird note that Joel is evil and it's better to let someone who murdered essentially you father live because revenge is bad even though you already killed like a 100 people for that revenge.This game didn't need a sequel. The ending of the first part was perfectly fine. The story is absolutely horrible. The leaks were right. What's up with the ending? You try to kill Abby but you suddenly feel guilty? What's up with that? Then there's the characters..Oh boy, they are so forgetable. Some of them feel forced into the story just to push an agenda. Then there's the actual killing, why does it have to be so gory? Are they trying to be edgy? It's not Carmageddon or Mortal Kombat. Overall a terrible experience. What a waste of money.Terrible story it is, Joel and Ellie are dead and sex scene quite not good, quite double standard for Sony censored other Japanese games on non-nudity bikini while their exclusive get free passThis is not canon. When the game is only inspired by ideolgically possessed radical virtue-signalers, it isnt a story in the normal sense. Therefore, the last of us never had a sequelWhat a waste. I live in Europe, got the game earlier than US. I must say that I haven't seen any spoilers before I played. The story in 2 is so much worse. Characters are not themselves it's so weird playing this. After the first couple of hours I almost had no motivation to play it anymore. I just treated it like an uncharted game, which says a lot when this is TLOU2 we're talking about. Loved the first one, really bored out of my shoes with the second. What a waste!Gameplay-wise, this game is amazing. Graphics-wise, this game is amazing. The world is beautiful and you can tell the devs put a lot of time into making it a better game than the first. I can agree that in most cases this game should deserve a very high rating. Unfortunately, the developers have decided that anyone who was invested in the first game and everything that took place during it can just go kill themselves. After everything that happened in the first game and the player having to come to terms with the decision Joel made at the end of the game, killing him off right at the start of this game because "his decision was wrong" is a massive kick in the balls to anyone who grew attached to both Joel and Ellie. It's like the devs are saying "you liked the story we told in the first game, so get **** you weren't supposed to like it." Even after seeing all the leaks, I wanted to give this game a chance assuming that Joel's death would happen towards the middle or at least a third into the game and be a turning point for the story. Unfortunately, it happens within the first two hours. This completely killed any enjoyment I had had in this game and ruined my motivation to keep on playing it, regardless of the fact that everything else in this game is absolutely award winning.horrible story telling force romance between ellie and diana ( not because they are gay but the romance is literally forced. for a good example of amazing gay romance i can name life is strange before the storm ) a lot of story has been changed from the trailers and trailers were literally false advertisements. the dialogs feels super cringe and soulless. a lot of disturbing sexual content in names of ( normalizing) only positive point that the game has is literally the atmosphere and graphics nothing more. I'm more than disappointedNo me gustó porque tengo que jugar como la asesina de Joel cuál si fuera buena y además putear casi de muerte a Elli vaya mierda de historia y al final ni la mata 20 horas esperando a matarla y la deja viva vaya decepción debieron dejar que uno eligiera si matarla o no estoy decepcionadoNice graphics, good graphics, and good gameplay but the problem comes with a Bad story.bad character development and which ends up being a complete insult to the original game and loaded with sjw agenda. we want games, not politics.There's not much I can say that hasn't been said yet, but honestly, what was that? This is the worst writing i've seen since Game of Thrones Season 8. 10/10 would want my money backLa jugabilidad impecable, ppero vaya manera de estropear la historia, tuve que jugar para sacar mis conclusiones, peroes de dar asco cierto puntos de la historia, una manera ridicula por asi decir de matar a Joel, ya esperaba que iba a morir, pero matarlo como un cualquiera,vamos, y el final, peor de lo que esperaba. 1 punto por la jugabilidad y solo eso vale, al que quiera jugar por la historia vas a tener asco al inves de emocion, lo mejor, ver la historia por los youtubers primero, antes de comprar el juego.Diversão e emoção são a definição para esse jogo, gráficos impressionantes, uma mecânica lisa e fluente, superou o primeiro em vários aspectosThe story disrespects joel and they let us play as Joel's killer and now they are trolling usGame theory said that the vaccine could not work because it's not a virus it's a fungus and they would have to study the things that eliles body producesThe vaccine would have never workedJoel did nothing wrong Ellie would have died for nothing because the vaccine would not make a cure it just would never worked they should have studied the things that make Ellie immuneLol people review bombing this game arent that bright Espessially since the game just came out doubt all those people beat a 20-30 hour game in under 3 hours at least digitally, Look Regardless of your opinion on the games Story direction this is NOT under a 9/10 when you look at all the other qualities of this game. This game has the best Graphics in this. Console generation,very very very good Gameplay even better then the first game, The detail is stunning,, characters are acted out phenomenal and The music and atmosphere beats out even the first one. Ik ik i rated it a 10 which is just as disingenuous as the Morons review bombing it but trying to balance out those BS reviews, 12 hours in for me and the game is easily 9/10 material it just is better then the first one on all aspects cept Story so far and personally i think the story is great but First games story was def superior imho. Dont listen to the haters and At least try this game out cause its a truly special and awesome game and a ton of fun with the amazing Hand to hand combat and stealth mechanics, Gunplay is epic also. I highly recommend it!Отличная игра, уже наиграл 6+ часов, и получаем с женой уйму удовольствия. особенно улыбают отзывы людей которые на английском писали тут что прошли игру и она гавно спустя 3-4 часа после релиза игры =))) КЛОУНЫ =)OK now i know why i should had watched the spoilers but i did like the first one so i waited. You know how in the witcher 3 you could decide with who you want to have sex or just not have sex at all and focus in the game. Well in this game get ready because if you are ready or not, your eyes are going to get F when you see how the character that you use(abby) is going to get it if you wanted or not. However, the enviroment is incredible so it gets one point for it. If you want to play a game where try to do the best but still you get F all the time then play this game. In my case i am going to leave it where is at and i just prefer to wait for the complete spoilers and not spend more hours playing this thing.The good. Amazing to look at, really how did they get this out of a PS4 pro, cannot fault it. The sound design is great, a few repeated lines that keep been said but still great for this age of tech. Animations are great/fluid. The OK The acting is a mixed bag, it's well done but the script is at times is cringe. The BAD This is the big bad that destroyers all the other good work, the story is painfully bad. By that I mean its The Last Jedi bad (ok some like that film) There are decisions made in-game that are "wtf, did they forget about character behavior/knowledge in the 1st game" plot holes, side stories where I was let saying out loud "Why are you making us play this long side story... it's crap" then the wonderful swap where you play as a person you basically hate....and this is not even mentioning a worse death than Luke in The Last Jedi. I get people need to die in games and films, to motivate others, give a reason for their actions, but write it well and in such a way that even those who disagree with it, still see the reason and can understand it. After about 15 hrs I was just playing to finish it, get it done, sadly it got worse near the end but by then I had given up and just wanted it finished so I could get it on Ebay. I just do not get how they messed this up so badly.I played for 27 hours.. Was the longest 27 hours of my life, 27 hours I will never get back. This game doesn’t have the emotional investment of the first game, neither the writing quality!! The plot doesn’t make any sense. It’s feel like naughty dogs sacrifice the main lead of the first game for LGBTQ+ inclusion. Well, wasn’t a good representation after all. Ellie didn’t have a moral compass what so ever like in the first game, a Big shift I may add. She was the innocent factor in the last of us 2013, now she is just a strong and powerful woman that nothing can stop her killing spree? 2/10 for the polished game and peace.The best game of this generation and the best good ending for the 8th generation , Amazing story , perfect graphic and awesome game play !!! listen to your heart and buy this game!7 years, for this ?, What a **** end, is what happens when people like Anita influence a work, end up destroying it and the worst thing is that I don't know why the big industries continue to listen to these types of people.False advertising, main character killed, antagonist gets the revenge where Ellie after killing thousends of people learns that vengeance is bad and lets antagonist go, LGBT and feminist themes Extremely forced into the game, in-game every character acts like young californians thinking that alcohol and sex is everything in life. Gameplay and dynamics are very good but they are also repetitive after 20 hours of gameplay. Last but not least i’m no russian but, currently i am level 337 on TLOU remastered multiplayer with the platinum trophy and 100% completion. Imagine how much i love the (first) game...Apart from the graphics, there is little to the game I actually enjoyed. If you loved the first game do yourself a favour and skip this one. I can't imagine that this franchise could possibly continue after this game it really tarnishes the legacy that much. It feels like naughty dog has no clue why people like the first last of us. There are so many times during the game where it feels like they were trying to impose morals or thoughts on you that you probably already have. It's very bland.Gameplay as boring as possible, characters are annoying ang not interesting, this game just spits on a whole series and the only purpose of this game is to please lgbt community and all that sjw stuffThis review contains a great deal of spoilers. Read it at your own caution. I will try to not specifically spoil things in particular with particular detail, but I will give a rough outline of the way the story is structured. My problem with the Last of Us 2 is not in Ellie being a lesbian or Dina being bisexual or in Lev being a transman. I found the area of Seattle with Pride flags to be, well, pretty normal considering it's Seattle. I found the fact that the two women in a lesbian relationship not understanding "what's with all the rainbows" was self-aware, funny, and a moment of levity. The little novel you can find in the bookstore that is lesbian erotic has a description on the back that is self-aware and humorous and makes fun of cliches about college lesbian experiences. These things are done just fine and I don't particularly feel any way about them in particular. Whether or not you care about these things... they're mostly minor. Mostly. Except for one character's backstory, though that character's backstory is never forced down your throat and I feel they could have even been more subtle with it. My problem is how the game treats revenge, Ellie, Joel, and the player, as well as the order of events. The game is broken into 4 main sections. The intro, two main halves, and the conclusion. Sort of like an essay, almost. The problem is that something that happens in the introduction involving a major character death has almost zero context and had I gone into the game completely unspoiled, I'd have been outraged at this death. This major character is a survivor. Someone hardened and wizened to the cruelty of the world. This character saves someone from danger and in return, when they reach safety, this major character introduces themselves plainly without any paranoia and with full trust while at the mercy of other people. This major character should not have done this and it is completely out of their character. They are then promptly killed. With the context as to why, it makes sense. But the game does not supply this context until more than halfway through the game. In Ellie's section of gameplay, we get flashbacks of her growing up with Joel after they've settled in Jackson. Their relationship develops, and in the final flashback from her half of the game, her relationship with Joel becomes incredibly rocky. We do not see how her relationship with Joel stands at the start of the game until we get cutscenes from the night before the start of the game. The game should begin like so for a more clear and understandable setup. We would see flashbacks for the character who kills a major character to understand their motivation. Then we see Ellie growing up some. Then we alternate between flashbacks for Ellie and the killer so as to understand how they've grown and changed and become who they are. Then we start the game and lead up to the major character death. This would make things so much more understandable on both sides and a lot more straightforward instead of contrived and feeling very retcon-y. The killer's gameplay sections are interesting much like Ellie's and the relationships that they develop along the way are fine on their own. I found them a bit lacking compared to the dialogue between Ellie and Dina and Jesse, but I also found them more than serviceable and had little issue with that. This final paragraph contains a LOT of spoilers. You are warned. All I will say now is that the conclusion of the game is unsatisfying and horribly written. Ellie does not kill Joel's killer. She is about to kill her and spares her. Ellie returns home and Dina has left her and taken her baby with her. Ellie has lost everything. Instead of making this a chance to contemplate whether or not Ellie killing Abby was worth it if it cost her everything, she doesn't get revenge for Joel at all, and Abby escapes off to Catalina Island with no consequences for her actions. Joel had consequences for what he did, I don't deny that. But Ellie was justified in wanting to kill Abby. The game does try to make things morally gray, but it does so very poorly. And I found myself suffering fatigue from the story after a while. It was dragged on for so long. It felt unnecessary in many places. It sheds the best parts of the first game and how its characters interacted and it did so for a revenge story, which can be amazing (Kill Bill, Django Unchained, etc.) but the opportunity was squandered and the game is unsatisfying. A rogue group of Firefly remnants kidnapping Ellie and Joel trying to save her would have been a better story. Or just even having Ellie kill Abby would have made the game much better, sincerely speaking. I wanted to enjoy this game. I wanted it so badly. But I barely enjoyed anything in it apart from the somewhat improved combat and the beautiful scenery.I'm Truly heartbroken after waiting all these years and falling in love with the first game this is what we got what huge FN disappointment neil druckmenn or whatever his name is should be fired for pushing his agenda and bullcrap on our faces i really hope sony does something because this is just badRespect IGN Japan, because you didn't take a bribe from sony. 1 problem "feminism and lgbt".Original game was a strong 8.5. Was it good - Yes. Was it overrated - Yes. Just finished TLOU2 - my god what have they done. Games are meant to be FUN. This was a chore to play. If it wasn’t for insomniac I’d switch to Microsoft next gen.Ok there are 2 parts on my review, the game doesn't deserve a 0 and I will tell you the reasons why it's a 5 The graphics, the level design, character design, GRAPHIC design (there is more than what you think) everything is beautifull and I though DMC and GOW had the best graphics for a PS4 or console game in general BUT this **** is soo special, feels good, lookds good and is kinda fun even though the gameplay is not as polish and milimetric as COD, Overwatch, etc. If you wanna be pleased with marvelous graphics, layout and good looking everything be my guest and play this game. THE STORY IS THE PROBLEM, you expect something from a game. If you buy DOOM you wanna feel badass and kill demons moving fast with BIG GUNNS, if you buy dishonored you wanna go stealth or murdered everbody in creative ways. Unless you like to brainlessly spent your money, the process goes by knowing which kind of game you want to play before buying it Since the last of us 1 I expected to buy the sequel FOR THE STORY and the story is trash. You don't get the context necesary to empathize to some of the main characters. Some of the events on the game are pointless, could have been pretended and make the characters to feel really stupid. The pacing of the game is horrible, doesn't feels like the events slowly and organically guide to the end but they feel like they wanted the sroty to GO LIKE THIS instead of letting it to unfold itself at a reasonable series of events AS STATED BY DRUCKMAN the context will make you understand the reason for it but instead the context given makes you HATE to play it and ends up being unfun SOME characters, acts, events, from the first game are disrespected becaus of the dumbass context. If something was gray color on the 1st, will be BLACK AF on this one. I wouldn't buy this game if you're comming for the story, so bad that the story is SO trash it eclipse the gameplay and good animations and graphicsHow you gonna kill 5 million people then get to the person you wanna kill and be like "Nah, it's just gonna be a cycle of vengeance". What about the cycles your started with the other 5 million **** you killed, huh? What about that **** huh!? Dumb ass plot.A disastrous disappointment: The Last Of Us Part 2 is a beautiful looking game albeit a narrative failure. With improved gameplay and visuals, the game is beautiful to look at and exploration is incredibly immersive. However, the story is a complete flop which disregards and disrespects the fans that made the first game what it is. The game feels more like the final part in a trilogy more than part 2. There are five years of untapped potential that was completely wasted and confined to 2 hours worth of flashbacks. It’s a bad sign when the flashbacks that have very little gameplay are better than the actual story. Naughty Dog have taken what made the first game amazing and a storytelling masterpiece and turned it into a plot hole filled disrespectful and nasty game which even messes up its own message: That violence and revenge is wrong. Characters are wasted and not fully developed. New characters are bland and don’t serve any purpos. A massive disappointment for anyone who plays, Even The visuals and voice performances can’t save you from wanting to put down the controller after half way through. This is Game of Thrones season 8 levels of writing/fan fiction.TLOU2 does a wonder in its visuals, the graphic fidelity it can achieve in a limited hardware show how much work naughty dog put into it. Gameplay is also an improvement over the first Tlou which is not perfect. Story when we are reviewing a single player campaign with no multiplayer, it's the most important point to get right to add replayability, recommmend to others, accessibility. In my own critical opinion the story felt unbelievable, many decisions over the story makes no sense, commonly known as the "plot armor", many relationships which TLOU2 focused on more than the story itself, felt forced and scripted in a terrible timeline of events. TLou2 felt like the beginning stage to plan this game was, how to make more brutal and gruesome? to show the cruelty of the world they live in by breaking the boundaries of what games have shown in violent and sexual acts to fake easier an impact or shock. CHARACTERS: a big problem here since any character respecr what they were on the previous entry, they as well could be other characters if it werent for the resemblance and it shows strongly when they reckoned Tlou1 in form of amazing flashbacks which make you wish all the game were just in the past. Without going into spoilers. Its is hard to recommend this game to others, it has a few awesome sub-plots, clearly doesnt deserve anything less than a 5 just for visuals and sound but when story is what are you selling and its terribly written in a way that would want to make you stop playing and bought for 60 dlls to see such a disrespectful story to tlou legacy. It hurts its own fan base which i was into, without amy hennig as the main writter and lead i wouldnt be interested in a sequel to this. Sorry for any bad grammar, i am mexican and i know my english is not perfect, hopefully i was able to make my point clear. Planned actually a 7 but since story is the heaviest point to be able to replay, i did give it more weight and as a 6 i cant recommend it, (PASS) unless you really want to experience the story by yourself even with all the warnings+ Graphics and animations - Story and respect to lore - Pacing - Less compelling characters - Nerfed combat They Last Jedi'd us. Days Gone is better.The game is really good. Stop being salty and close minded. Granted, the pacing could have been better, that is my biggest problem with the game. But does that really make the games story poorly written and bad? The amount of insane moments in the game are beyond any 0/100 scores. Good god i hate the human race.What they did to Joel was disgusting and disrespectful towards fans who loved Joel.a fortuitous game that clearly only has one objective in mind, not to tell a story, not be be an engaging and fun action game, but to bait poltical agendas and cause a stirr during an election year.The story is bad. They killed our favorite character and then forced us to play with his killer. They destroyed the story. Don't waste your money on this.Great visuals. Too bad games aren’t based on visuals. It plays like a game made in 2015, and there were better games at that point. Story arc is utterly delusional. Characters make choices they wouldn’t, because a new 4head ran this guano show. He even inserted himself in the game just to have a sex scene with his new muhqueen. Jon snow still knows nothing. We’re forced to play a character only a small minority will relate too, for ideological reasons not her/him/it’s mental state. If a character is well written and enthralled by an engaging story everyone will relate to them. Pure pandering, welcome to 2020 folks. It’s sad to see such a beloved IP brought so low just for ideological purposes .Yep I won’t be finishing this one. Not a fan of the story. Graphics are amazing. Story is awful. Updated: finished it and HATED the ending. Gameplay w Abby is fun. I didn’t like her character though. I didn’t care about any of the story after “the thing” happens. Ruined characters. You couldn’t pay me to play another sequel.Incredible game play and graphics, and necesary story considering that joel kill a lot of innocents, pls normalice sexuality and stop being babys.What can I say, there is nothing interesting about the game. What made The Last of Us so memorable was the beautiful story between Joe and Ellie, and it sucks that they threw everything away. They don’t expand whatsoever on the infected or do they add new ones to the game. The new characters in the game are so forgettable, even do the game expands on them well they are just not interesting at all. It just makes the game dull. If we talk about graphics well if you have a PC the game just looks normal, specially if you play Red Dead 2 with high end graphics. The game play is similar to the first game nothing special there. Now on a positive note, the sound design team did and amazing job!! Finally, I don’t recommend you buy the game at full price, just wait for it to go on saleUn juego demasiado crudo para cualquier persona, quizá exagerado, todo ha sido mejorado, la primera parte sigue siendo mejor, de cualquier forma es una obra maestra.First, TLOU2 probably has the best graphics on PS4 Pro and it's not even close. Unfortunately, that's about the only positive thing to say. By far the worst character development and story I've played. Didn't pay attention to the leaks but probably should have so i wouldn't have wasted my time or money on this trash. Last of Us was such an amazing game, can't believe they ruined this.DO NOT BUY. The plot is disgusting, looks like a Bollywood trash movie. The second half of the game, the greater half... this is nonsense of a graphomaniac.The story and franchise potential is absolutely destroyed. I have finished the game recently, and if you think that the main game is terribly dumped into bottomless pit alongside with all the hopes and love for the franchise - wait until you'll finish the game. The ending is terrible and absolutely demolish everything you loved in the first game. Gameplay is boring and dim after a while (was playing on high difficulty), AI is stupid and the only challenge is the ammo. Visually - the game is okay, but nothing special. Sorry that it have come to this.Graphics are great but the story is trash. Destroys what I loved about the first game & was hard to finish the game. Very disappointing after 7 years of thinking we would see the next chapter of Joel and Ellie story of survival. This game forces political agenda at every stop at the expense of quality story. It’s like the last Jedi of video games for what it does to these beloved characters from the 1st.As a huge fan of the original The Last of Us, this sequel is nothing more than a disappointment. While the graphics are nice and the gameplay is smooth, it is all overshadowed by a terribly written story full of plot holes, forced agenda, a bad ending. The mood of the game is nothing but depressing for its entirety. My eagerness to play as Joel and Ellie and continue their adventures were stopped dead in their tracks as quickly as it began, If The Last of Us was the high point in Naughty Dog's career, this is surely the low. It is no wonder why 80% of their team left during this game's creation due to disagreement of its creation. Neil Druckmann and any others involved in this story, writing, dialogue, or narrative, single-handedly ruined it all. It actually pains me to know we waited 7 years for this... but as for my friends and I, this game doesn't exist. The story ended with the original. This is a disgraceFirst things first, be really wary of reviews giving the lowest scores - chances are they have done so to tank the ratings! Now onto the review: Firstly, once again ND have set the bar for graphics, sound and acting in a game - these truly are astounding; and really must be applauded - the teams responsible for these aspects have outdone themselves. Sadly though, they have been let down completely by the writers. TLOU2 should not be considered, by any TLOU fan, a sequel. The writers have completely and utterly destroyed everything that you learned to love in the first game. I don't care about character's sexual orientation - that personally isn't something that is on my radar, or something I'd care about; love who you love and all that. But the game is pointless due to its story - rather than create a worthy successor to the first, ND have put forward a nonsensical and boring story - and let's no mention the numerous misleading pieces before released; making it seem that Joel will be in it. I wouldn't be surprised if there will be a huge influx of refund requests to this alone. I tried to laugh off all the comments about the 10/10 reviews being "paid off" - but you really start to wonder if there is some truth to this, the further you get into this game. As a die hard TLOU fan, I cannot recommend this game at all - just keep on walking folks, let the ending of TLOU be the end.It’s a good game expect for the gay thing that is going on which makes no sense for the game designЭто просто писец, сюжет и гемплэй ужасен, лучше бы не игралОбидно конечно! Огромное количество работы слито убогим сценарием и еще более ужасной повесткой. Дракманна в угол за такое непотребство!Очень слабый сюжет, слили Джоэля ради повестки, тупой ИИ, после первой части эту нужно забыть и никогда не вспоминатьA dumpster fire with a burning rotten dog carcass inside, the developers want to present to you as as bouquet of Roses. Human misery simulator, there's nothing redeeming about this game. The only good thing it does is exposing the blatant corruption of payed reviewers. Stick to the first game, and pretend its the last one, Part II will ruin even the first if you play it. Gameplay 7. Graphics 9. Story 0. Overall 0I feel like this game was made by the king of cancel culture. They took the first game and cancelled everything good about it and rubbed it in your face. I hated this game and was really looking forward to it. Wish I could get a refund. Do NOT buy. The fun is gone. Wont even finish it. It's that bad.This review would likely be a bit higher if Naughty Dog didn't intentionally mislead their fans with the trailers. They made it seem like Joel would be along for the ride with Ellie, but instead they kill him off in the first portion of the game. The graphics are nice and the game play is what you would expect from ND, but the writing is cringe and elementary. This is self indulgent drivel and they have essentially ruined the original game by retconning it to death. I just hope my liver can handle the amount of alcohol it will take to kill enough brain cells to forget the Last of Us II was ever created.When Neil druckmann said "we don't use the word fun" he REALLY wasn't kidding. Tlou2 is a betrayal to the original game's character, story, and fans. I should have listened to the rumors. i'll just pretend that this game doesn't existTrata-se de um dos melhores jogos dessa geração e me arrisco dizer um dos melhores de todos os tempos! História, narrativa, gameplay e gráficos sem paralelo na atualidade! Parabéns Naughty Dog e a Sony pelo excepcional trabalho!What an absolute trainwreck of a game. Extremely lazy writing. Slow gameplay and even worse ending. It's almost like they forgot how Joel acted in the first one and wrote him like some random NPC that didn't matter to the story. Absolutely terrible. Save yourself the money and put it towards something that will give you joy, rather than going through hoops just to return the game once you're left with the disappointment when you finish this horrid game. Please. Save. Yourself.Would've been perfect if it wasn't for the lazy writing in some parts but overall it's really good sequel and surpass the first in everything except the writingМужики - козлы! Бабы и ЛГБТ - лучшие! Если у тебя между ног что-то есть,то ты не имеешь права ни на что!The Last of Us Part 2 is an example of how not to write a story. The main characters of Joel and Ellie from the first game are broken up early on. While this is a good starting point for pushing Ellie's plot, the issue comes from the split perspectives between Ellie and Abby. It is meant to draw comparisons between the two characters, but it ends up becoming an anachronistic story told from different points of view and different periods of time. There was one point where it was even a flashback within a flashback. The most disappointing part of the story was the ending as it cannot really be called an ending. The same fight plays out twice with the same inconclusive end to it. The biggest issue comes with the game's controls. The only way I can describe it is that it is bad. I found myself struggling against the controls during combat more than I was with the enemies. Aiming on a controller is just awful and most close quarters combats play out like bad quick time events. In the end, I had to turn the difficulty down because of how hard it was to aim with the controller and melee combat was impractical on higher difficulties. The platforming parts of the game are just as bad with the controls. The only thing I can say is positive about the game is the graphics. It looks good and there are seamless transitions between gameplay and cinematics. The environments are nice. Character animations are nice. The character models on the other hand are bad. I feel that they fall into that uncanny valley where the realism starts to creep me out.everyone gonna ask why I gave this game low score. well....I ain't gonna lie, this game has a lot of good things, but compare to what company's have said, I don't thing the game is that masterpiece. Yes it's better than the first one but still it's not that great thing. but most importantly.......THE STORY. it seems like naughty dog forgot why we liked the first game. The game is lacking so much of the story, it's so cheap and disturbing. I can't believe it's from naughty dog. I know I'm not in the position to say it but, personally I see that naughty dog need to do some serous rehiring before they touch any title in the near future. NOTE : I forgot to mention that they lied in some scenes in the trailers.I wish the game wasn’t so linear and force-fed I wish that I had the options to choose which route to take and which direction to go choosing between a good ending and a bad ending for more replay ability however this game leaves me no choice and it made me feel sick to my stomachЗа убийство Джоела эта часть не достойна хорошей оценки. Накеченое дермо убило лутшего персонажа 1 да и этой части."La peor secuela de la historia" No se que paso con este juego que lo siento tan diferente al original, la historia parece una satira de mal gusto, con uno de los finales mas absurdos y sin sentido que he visto, literalmente todo el juego fue sin proposito, lo peor es que al saber que Ellie no mataba a Abby al final del juego, sentí que no tenía ningún proposito nada de lo que jugaba, y cuando finalmente llegue al final del juego, tuve de las peores decepciones de un juego, no solo la soltaste cuando estaba colgada lista para morir, si no que ademas cuando ella se estaba yendo, Ellie decide pelear con ella cuando ya esta libre, y con eso en un segundo a otro Abby le quita 2 dedos a Ellie con la boca como si nada, y otra vez uno pensando, "ya no la dejare escapar de nuevo, ahora aparte de asesinar a Joel y mis seres queridos, me quito 2 dedos por este enfrentamiento", pero no Ellie la vence y antes de hacerle justicia a la "venganza" decide dejarla ir, osea que paso de pasar todo el juego por nada, a quedar con 3 dedos en una mano, y ni hablar de la estupidez e inquietud que da el final del juego tratando de tocar guitarra con 3 dedos, es de las cosas mas grandes, bizarras, y morbosas que he visto en un juego y lo peor de todo que cada vez se siente que el juego es solo una tortura a los personajes que cada vez son mas idiotas tomando decisiones mas tontas. realmente no me metere con que no hay multijugador porque solo venía buscando una gran historia, pero termine encontrando la peor secuela de todos los tiempos de algún videojuego, Uncharted 2 se retuerce en su tumba, y hubiera preferido que The last of us 2 hubiera sido el Half Life 3 de PlayStation y que nunca hubiera dado a luz de ser tan malo como lo fue ahora. Si tienen la oportunidad de jugarlo les recomiendo sinceramente no hacerlo si ya jugaron el 1, porque la verdad se siente como si fuera un juego totalmente desligado a lo era The last of us 1Let me start out by saying that a lot of work was put into this game and that is why I think this game would've been a great multiplayer game. It is dark and some scenes are pretty intense. Unfortunately though, this game is very poorly written and the ending was disappointing. I think most people would agree the if the sequence of events in this game were different, it would've been a little more enjoyable. I really enjoyed the first game and would recommend that anybody that hasn't played yet, do so. This sequel just didn't live up to expectations and because of that I'm giving it a bad rating.Bad history political agenda every where,joe dies,to much gay parts I don’t care about that but i feels like they whant to force you to see thatI have a feeling a lot of these 1 star reviews are from people who haven't even played the game and some from people who own a certain MS console and can't play it. I received my copy 2 days early and I'm now finished. I'm not going to lie the first 2 hours broke me and I found myself very angry and sad about the direction the game was going in, but I ploughed through and I'm so glad that I did. Everything looks stunning it's the best game graphically available on the PS4 Pro. And with a generation that includes RDR2 and God of War that's no easy feat. The environment's feel alive in a way I've never experienced in a game before, the characters feel so real and the way enemies call each other by name makes every kill feel even more brutal. Upon first arriving in Seattle I was really enjoying tearing stuff up, mutilating and killing every WLF member I could find and leaving no-one alive, mainly because of my anger about the event 2 hours in. However the story is so masterfully written that by the midway point of Ellies first section I was already questioning whether any of this was worth all the bloodshed. The way enemies are brutally killed by Ellie was satisfying at first but carry weight the further you get into the game. Then I reached the section with Abby which during the first 2 hours of the game I never could have hated a video game character more, even more than Micah from RDR2. I wanted her to die cruelly at the hands of Ellie. But again Naughty Dogs masterclass of storytelling shines through. We are treated to a wonderful backstory explaining where Abby's hate began and her journey for revenge which mirrors Ellies story and even surpasses it in some regards, by the time you're done playing with Abby her morals and reasoning behind her actions far outweigh Ellie's bloodlust. The talent of Naughty Dog is on show here, turning a character I never thought I could hate more into someone you actually like in the space of 8-10 hours of gameplay is something I don't think any other developer in the buisness could acheive. The gameplay itself is massively improved so much more to craft, bigger environments to use stealth and more angles and avenues to use to your advantage in every situation you come across, not to mention the infected are fantastic in this game. The horrifying clickers return which are as terrifying as ever, The runners are also more deadly in this game. Special mention for the Stalkers which are massively improved in part 2, they hide around corners or in dark spaces and wait for you, and are very clever working in packs to try to kill you. I can honestly say in every way this game really needs to be played, I can see why there is division and I found myself angry and upset after the first 2 hours, but that is how the developer want's you to feel. Naughty Dog want you to arrive in Seattle full of hate and I can promise by the time you finish Ellie's section if you don't feel redeemed by all the bloodshed you must be psychotic. I've never experienced anything across all forms of media that moved me in the way this game has, that includes films, TV series and games. In a world of video games with stick thin plotlines and tireless open world, climb a tower unlock the next part of the map etc, bland games. This stands out by a mile. Really don't understand all the 1 star reviews here, either they've not played the game or a writing their opinion after 2 hours of playing. Funny thing is if Part 2 was the exact same journey story of Joel and Ellie in different locations there'd be another group of people complaining that it does nothing new, and is just milking the first game. Maybe that's what people want nowadays, the same stories over and over again with no shock factor and nothing new to add. This remaster culture we seem to have gotten into in the last 5 years or so is proof of this. I have a feeling that looking back in years to come this will be looked back on as a seminal moment in gaming, although it's divisive and raw, it's interesting. Which is more than I can say for most gamesEl juego es entretenido, buena ambientación y buena calidad grafica, pero es un juego sencillo, jugabilidad simple, historia mala en mi opinion, creo que es un juego para pasarselo un vez y nunca mas jugarlo, demasiado sobrevalorado por parte de la prensa que siempre le da 10 a todo, es juego es bueno pero de ahi a obra maestra de ahi a obra maestra es otro tema.Let me just start by saying I haven't finished the game, I've arrived at a certain plot point about half way through and disliked so much what I was playing I put down my controller in disgust. I managed to avoid the spoilers heading into this game, looking forward to what ND were planning for Joel and Ellie. To say I feel cheated is an understatement. On the positive side the graphics are fantastic (although my fan on the PS4 is working overtime) and technically it's impressive. The gameplay mechanics has improved a little from the original but essentially it's the same feel. One surprise though is that large parts of game are rather dull and there's a feel that the game has been padded out to make it longer. However....the story. It's terrible. The game basically tries to deconstruct everything about the first game which was so beloved without any redeeming positives, characters now make completely uncharacteristic decisions just to facilitate certain plot points and the plot itself has large holes in it. Its misery is relentless and the players are constantly forced to make decisions they don't want to only then for the game to make them feel guilty. I feel like I've spent £50 on a game for it to spend hours telling me off. The game apparently is about hate, the only hate I see is ND towards its own fanbase.Wildly disappointed in the game, with the first part can not be compared. And the critics are all bought to lure people in. Yes even bloggers were bribedThe game's not as bad as other ppl sayin'. I rly think ppl are over reacting at Joel's death , sure his death was bad and stupid but the game's just trying to feel like real life with not all ppl dying in dramatic ways , the game isn't as good as TLOU but it's def worth a try.While the game looks graphically outstanding, the plot and what they have done with the characters really leaves a bad taste In the mouth. It is a slap in the face of everyone who enjoyed the previous game.HEAVY SPOILERS!!! First of all, I loved this game. Secondly, I am deeply disappointed with the gaming community - or maybe people in general. The game is daring and it tries to give a realistic presentation of what a post-apocalyptic world would be(like the first game). It ADDS a serious amount of context for the story of the first game. As a matter of fact the first one feels lacking without the context of the second because you get to know the characters’ feelings and thoughts better. The story is indeed a cycle of violence. The fact that Joel dies saddens every fan but it doesnt mean that it is an injustice to the character. Joel did many questionable things. One of them caught up to him in the end thus propelling Ellie to a new adventure. The game shows you that life is a matter of perspective. Was Abby in the wrong for wanting to get revenge and killing Joel? Was Ellie wrong for wanting the same? Did that justify killing other people indirectly involved? Was Joel in the wrong for not letting Ellie die because he viewed her as his daughter but they possibly lost the cure for the infection? All these questions and more are hard to answer and are ethical dylemmas that require you to see them from a certain perspective. So yea, in this realistic brutal world, revenge is a thing, violence is a thing and hatred is a thing. Also the fact that you see Abby’s side is important for the story and vital though I really liked Ellies playstyle way more.(she is more nimble-better suited weapons for me) People crying because Joel died seems stupid to me. The game overall improves in every way. Gameplay is really good and has evovled(and i dont get why some people say its the same). Acting, animations, graphics etc are out of this world. Ending was almost perfect for me, it gives a ray of hope in the bleak world that humanity continues to devastate. I dont know why people thought that this would be Ellie's happy adventures but this franchise was always about hardships and relationships. All in all, some people just dont own Ps4 but xbox, some have problems with lesbians and trans people( btw Abby is not trans she just goes a lot to the gym), some people are really sensitive and had false expectations and some people just like to ride the bandwagon of hate towards something. Most of the aforementioned people havent played the game let alone finished it. Or they are magicians who finished the game some hours after metacritic opened user reviews. We also have an abnormal amount of user reviews..I wonder why. In conclusion. I would rate this game 97-98/100. Its a masterpiece in my opinion. Maybe the best single player story driven game I have ever played. I am just really sad that people are the way the are. Makes me think that the Last of Us part II gives a clear message that applies like a glove to the real world: people are filled with hatred and that it is shown by their actions.Although ND is still a industry leader with TLOU2 graphic wise, they have sold their soul to the story devil. I couldn't believe that what started out in TLOU with great storytelling, devolved into a stupid revenge tale. Highly disappointed with what was released. This is definately a step in the wrong direction and a do not buy till highly discounted for maybe 10 bucks.Great story, beautiful graphics. Nice job ND! Ellie's Jorney of revenge started with something that Will make the fanbase mad but Just play the game, Trust me.Waited 7 years for this game just to be crapped on. Neil sold out every one of his fans with this terrible story pushing worldviews and gender politics. Unnatural and inorganic storytelling that makes no sense to the franchise. I feel no emotion during any point of this game. Pathetic!The pros: Gameplay is really good and fluid Graphics are amazing and one of the best looking games out there The cons: Story is utter crap No character development All the new characters are boring or really annoying They butcher the legacy of the first game and make quite possibly the worst sequel to a video game everListen, Do Not listen to these people, a LOT of them haven't even played the game, but they are so miserable with their lives, that they spend their days trashing things they haven't even tried, and the others went in with a negative opinion due to spoilers.. Douchebags... I will admit, that I didn't like the one major thing that happened, it really bummed me out, BUT these games are amazing, and I literally had more emotional attachment, and feeling during the first six hours of this game, than 100 other games I've played(If EVER at all).. The gameplay is great, they fixed a bunch of the little issues I had with the game, and it plays MUCH smoother, the combat is fantastic, and I CAN'T wait to play it again (Definitely need some sleep first though lol). One scene, does Not make a game bad, and just because YOU wouldn't have gone that direction, doesn't mean it's bad, when you make games, you get to decide what happens, until then, shut your mouths, or go Blog to other miserable People like yourself.. This game tells a heartfelt, incredible story, and there are very few games like it as far as emotional weight.. Again, maybe I wish one thing went another way, but guess what, this is the APOCALYPSE, People die, bad things HAPPEN, if you want the fairy tale ending, go watch Disney moviesThe last of us: Part 2 It's just a magical and wonderful game from the beginning, I'm caught up to the end, don't be fooled by the comments if you want to play it, buy it and if you don't have any plans to do it better watch gameplays. As Sony's Playstation's console gamer and lover was worth all these years waiting for this game and every dollar spent on it, I can say that a great game to end this generation.This game is utter garbage, what they have done to the main characters is disgusting. While the graphics are good I knew it was going to be a horrible story by all the media using the same buzzwords like "great game-play". The story is shallow and utterly aimed and pandering to social justice. Would refund if I couldwhen I started playing part 2, it was up and down for the first few hrs. I hated it and loved it. Now I’m about halfway through the game and it’s the best game I ever played. Ppl who gave up on it after “the scene” are not real gamers and have NO IDEA what they are missing... You can’t watch cutscenes and assume you know how the game will be. I like the game Halo but if I watch gameplay for 30 min I’d wanna kill myself, does that make it the worse game ever??? Most of there ppl rating the game are Xbox players. Don’t listen to it. Pick it up and try it for yourself. It’s a masterpiece and GOTY**** game i hate it i don't know why i just hate it and i will never never buy it and i don't recommend you to do**** game.. Игра гавно . Scheis Spiel Spiel ohne gameplay, häsliche Hauptharaktere, einfach eine entäuschung. игра обсолютно не о чём, не идёт ни в какае сравнение с первой частью, однозначно не покупать, ни за какие деньги.I played for a god 13 hours of the game I cant play this game any longer . the visuals are near perfect. The game has an amazing atmosphere. The biggest problem I have with the game is the story of the game. First with Joel's death happening after only the first 2 hours of the game by a character you play with through the game along side ellie. Everytime I played with abbie it makes me feel like turning off the game and never playing this game again. The story for this game is trash. If I had a chance for a refund I would definitely get one and not support naughtydog and specially neil druckman for making disasterpeice of a game. Dont buy this gamePura lacração e bugs, se não quer ser doutrinado evite esta porcaria pois é uma clara ferramenta ideológica!Games are supposed to be entertaining. This game is absolutely the opposite of that. I do not relate and do not want to relate to the characters because they seem FORCED. From the moment I started to play (and I was SO excited for this game)... from the moment I started to play I wanted to quit. Ellie sucks. Abby sucks Everyone is horrible. That’s the world you want me to play in Druckmann? No thanks. I find good things in my world, and I don’t want to be in the headspace of ANYONE in yours. This game is straight up not enjoyable, at all. I don’t care what your message is, and maybe you’ll get a lot of other people to sit through this torture chamber, but not me. I am 100% fine with women characters. Horizon had a strong wonderful woman character who was a joy to play. I don’t care in the least that Ellie is gay, but none of this game makes any sense at all. The characters simply make me cringe. Ellie is hateful. She’s horrible and I don’t like her. I don’t want to be near her and that’s a real problem since I am forced to be her in the game. How can you make a game with a central character who is SO unlikable? Really Naught Dog? The game makes me cringe. It’s sad to me that naughty dog actually thought that this is what fans wanted. I do not know what is going on in this country, but I don’t want to be a part of the same nation as these sort of people anymore. I’ve just totally had it with them pushing their ideals down my throat endlessly, demanding I relate to them. I don’t. I won’t. I don’t care if you ever make games for “me” again. I don’t need to spend my money with you, it’s fine. I truly don’t care at all. There are other things to do. I don’t need this. TLOU was one of my all time favorite games. It was heartbreaking. It was beautiful, and it truly had love written all over it. TLOU2 is an absolute train wreck of SJW meets too high expectations for me. I am in shock that this is the game that naughty dog thought fans wanted. Either that, or (more likely) naughty dog does not care what fans want. They used all of us who loved TLOU by taking a platform we all loved... and turning it into a nonstop lecture on the evils of white men. Oh, how brave. How daring. How boring. This game is being sold. I couldn’t play more than 3 hours of it... and I honestly disliked every minute of it. Congratulations on that naughty dog. By the way, I thought Control was awesome. Female lead, was awesome, great game. I’m 100% done with anything like TLOU2. Feel free to replace me and my dollars with anyone else, Druckmann. I sincerely wish you good luck with your new audience. I’ll be spending time with artists, people, things, that are #1 fun #2 represent characters and worlds that I enjoy. TLOU2 is neither.I hated this game. And I’m truly sad to say that because the first is nothing short of a masterpiece in my humble opinion. Storytelling falls so short of its original mark, only shining in the briefest of glimpses throughout, but prove weak in comparison to dragging misery the rest of the game offers. Additional and old characters are poor here and hard to care about, whether their decision making or lack of anything exciting to their story, I personally found myself rooting for absolutely nobody. So what was the point? Animal violence was messed up as well. No value in revisiting, and severely damages the firsts replay value as well. Shocking... just an absolute horror show and I am sadly disappointed to have to fallout of love with what was one of my favourite franchises. andGameplay was never the greatest strength of The Last of Us, but this time, despite some graphics/animations improvement, it got worse - bigger and longer stages of doing the same things will often have you wishing for it to be over already. The story, however, was the strongest thing about the first game. This time it's significantly worse - too pretentious, too preachy and zero player agency, forcing your constantly watch your character make very bad decisions. Looks like the devs are just trying to lecture you about how bad hatred and violence is, and nothing else mattered while writing the plot. They would stick to it, even if that meant having every character in the world acting like some sadistic moustache twirling villain. And somehow they thought that would make the story "deep".It’s all ridiculous..this story is a joke. Physics are perfect, graphics even better, actors are great, but the story, how it’s written..jesus what a waste of a good game. At the end I was like well after all at least it will end like this...But no, this was just the most unsatisfying ending I experienced like ever in video game. If you liked first part, don’t ever start the part 2 or it will ruin the impression of this game for you forever.WTF have I just witnessed. 10s across the board. On graphics wise it's atheistically beautiful with landscapes and terrain but on story and where it all counts this is daylight robbery for customers and a smack in the face to fans. IGN and other people should be ashamed. Name calling fans into buying the game. They are companies that offer nothing but terminological inexactatudes.Naughty Dog, never would I have thought you'd do this. Their are few video game studios out in this world that I believe to be "True to their craft". Santa Monica Studios, CD Projekt Red, Rockstar, Insomniacgames & Naughty DogThe game’s audio and visual body of work is amazing. There is 1 good scene in the game and it is a flashback. This is a clearly visible sign the main story is weak. Absolutely horrible storytelling and they took constant cheap shots at you.A pointless exercise in brutal violence. Ellie got robbed: No real interaction with Joel, basically turned into a homicidal maniac and then ends the game alone and abandoned...basically it's a game that **** on the legacy of the first by pretending to be deep and emotional. This is the Last Jedi of video games.I was looking forward to the The Last of Us 2, however I was left bitterly dissapointed with the direction the game took especially after the enjoyment i got out of playing the first one.The story telling in this game was so bad that I made an account to leave a bad review. I never review anything, but I feel like I would’ve been better off just flushing $60 down the toilet. If you’re looking for a satisfying ending, look elsewhere because this one makes no sense. Yes, you become the better man, er woman after the main villain eats your fingers and you think about guitars. You don’t want revenge after you tell the main villain you will kill her as she kills Joel in front of you. You just want to play guitar with your eight fingers. I’m not joking, that’s the end scene.This game had so much potential yet it wasted it Visuals and Music are best of the generation no doubt there . But the game length, story and pacing are terrible .characters act way too stupid and out of character characters have dumb motives and conclusions ending is just terrible so disrespectful to the original characters just a **** story in a story driven game.I wanted to like this. I really did, i loved the original. But i just can't. From a technical point of view the game is stunning. The graphics, the sound, the animation quailty, it's all top notch. It falls apart horribly by the story however. How am i supposed to believe that Joel, a man who in the orginal is a born sceptic of everyone's motives just walks into a room full of armed people, not questing their motives one bit? The same Joel that ran a car over a dude in the first one because he did not believe him to be hurt ( and he was right) Then they go an kill off Joel in a really unstatsfying manner, making you play as the person who killed him for a good portion of the game, even making you curb stomb Ellie. I never wanted to lose a fight in a videogame more badly. Throughout the game we never get an choice to not do some of the horrible actions you do, but the game is all too happy to rub your face in it, when you have to do them to progress in the first place. Then u get to the ending and you dont even get to have sweet revenge, but you let your enemy walk away. She effectively wins and gets all she wanted with nothing you can do about it, and you have lost everything good going for you. It's 1 big piece of badly written misery, with not a single lighthearted touch anywhere. Save your money, stay far away from this garbage fire of a game.Disgusting. ND has lied and manipulated their fans with their marketing strategy, leading us to believe that Joel would play an important role in the game, by showing multiple game footage in the trailer that is actually not in the game. This is the most disgraceful thing I've ever seen by a gaming company. ND should be ashamed of themselves and should be sued for that false advertisement. This is the main reason why I give it this score, I was manipulated by being told by the developers that this game would be something that it is not. Here is the complete list of reasons why I gave it a score of 0: -> The game not being what ND marketed it as -> The story seems like a rushed out draft at best, not even making sense on some occasion -> There are many plot holes in the story -> Turning the characters we've become attached to in TLOU 1 into idiots -> The explicit intimate scenes (I don't want to watch sex while playing games, this was absolutely unnecessary) -> Unnecessary d r u g s use scenes -> The important amount of unnecessary swearing between Dina and Ellie (which takes Ellie's innocence away and make her lot less likable) -> The intense kissing scenes between Ellie and Dina (A game is not the place for that. And I would make the same argument if it was a man and a woman kissing, I just don't want to see that kind of stuff when I'm playing a game) -> The SJW Agenda I was so hyped for this game. For 7 years now I've been dreaming about the day this game would come out, I was so hyped and excited for it. ND and Neil Druckman have crushed this hype, and it seem to have been their objective all along, making us hate this game, hate this franchise and hate this company. Well done. ND missed a great opportunity of making a masterpiece. Instead, they completely ruined this franchise.What in the world have you done. the year is late 2020 where possibilities are endless, and Naughty Dog releases a game that is so linear and boring that the only people who thought it was brilliant are the brain dead Journalist. The game looks ok not breathtaking or cutting edge, almost the same quality as Days Gone. I don't care one bit about someones sexual preferences, but this game honestly puts you in a cuckold and makes you live it. everything from the killing of a beloved character, to the weird sex scene that made me gag. the writing is that of an under developed child, the story is one of how revenge is bad, but it looses its focus, it was either that or my give a crapper broke the second I was forced to do an activity I did not want to do. Naughty Dog, Journalist, and you Neil are to blame for this waste of energy. I gave it a two because it is obvious the Dev's made a serious attempt but please from now on stand up to them and do not allow this hot garbage to be put into society.How can someone treat beloved characters like that? No respect to your community, things just done for a shock value and to bring controversy Graphic are nice game play is OK but story is a joke, almost quit the game after the batting and a spit on a corpse of my beloved character... if you want to kill someone like that do it in a manner they deserve, like a noble sacrifice not like this like W.T.F is wrong with you thinking that people will take **** like that and ask for more? Why wen we have lesbian sex camera cuts off straight away, when we have trance/gay sex we need to watch most of it? Either show both property or cut off both at a similar manner... Stop pushing your political agendas, leave gaming out of it... Was waiting for so long for part 2, what a letdown, oh and nice work with a critic scores legit as hell. Thanks to you will never prerecord the game again.Very bland , very linear , combat/gameplay seems worse , ai definetly not improved. Story makes no sense , characters act facepalm. Only + graphic upgrade and visuals.Game has not an Happy ending but is still Good gameplay/technically wise .After the first game this is so disappointing. The story is horrible. Annoying false advertisement (character you are avenging for is so predictable they have to lie to you). "Play half of the game for the character you want to kill" move does not work at all. Waste of time and money.The political **** is so bad in this game its cancel culture the game. Also my favorite character just got **** randomly killed just like wtfI thought all the rumors and spoilers weren’t true but holy moly is this game a dumpster fire. They were all true. Also Abby is a man not a woman.TLOU 2 is a great game but not a masterpiece or very bad game.Game has very good gameplay mechanics,graphics and animation details.Especially close combat and combat animations really impresive.But story on the other hand I really hate it and all story npc's joke.I finish this game 2 times already but i can't really say one npc worth the remember.Graphics:10/9-Gameplay:10/10-Story:10/5-AI:10/9-Music:10/7-Performance:10/8I am only a couple hours into this game but it is amazing. The story has a lot of twists and turns. Also NO LOAD TIMES! Which is amazing. I don’t believe over 3,000 people gave this game 0’s and 1’s.... I smell haters and jealous Xbox fans.Whoever finds TLoU2 good is definitely not interested in the main characters Ellie and Joel of the first game. I was so looking forward to this game, I hoped the leaks were wrong. Unfortunately, they are all true. And I can no longer hear all of these apologists who believe that the majority of users fervently hates this game because Ellie is a lesbian. No, that's not what it is about. I was looking forward to seeing Joel again, he was my main reason to buy the game. Ellie is cool and I wanted to know how she developed. But I wouldn't have bought the game because of her. Why is this game bad? Druckmann threw Ellie and Joel in front of a incoming train. The story is crap, how Druckmann has Joel killed in the game is crap and the end is a joke. This game has a amazing graphic. True. But what good is the best graphics if a game has no heart? For me, neither TLoU2 nor Naughty Dog exists. Man ... who wants me to play one of their games again could pay me thousands of dollars. And yet I would say "no".Graphics are good, but gameplay is clunky and the worst is story :/ you don't connect to anybody in there, so I don't care while playing. It's really weird game like Druckmans personal fantasy.After spending some time with this game, I'm really disappointed. The gameplay is 98% identical to the first game, and so much control is taken from you as the game often forces you to slowly walk constantly. This is outdated and frustrating design. In terms of the story, it drags too much. Naughty Dog really wants you to be emotionally absorbed in the plot, but they simply don't know when to stop. It gets boring watching generic character dramas play out, and certain of these characters have been dumbed down from the last game as part of a frustratingly bad plot device. I won't comment on the LGBTQ aspect, it honestly didn't irritate me the way everything else did. Certain moments are beautiful and the game looks pristine. But unfortunately it feels too dated and the story suffers from bad writing. Naughty Dog should have kept the first game as the only one. This was unnecessary.I invited one of my homies to stream the game with me. Our plan was to get piss drunk as we were playing this game. We ended up sobering up and checking out right at the two hour mark. This game tries way too hard to be profound. It fails miserably at trying to be profound because it's just too boring. Slogging from one cutscene to the next just felt like a chore. It got me to nearly want to fall asleep with just howboring things got. Also, the story just isn't interesting in the slightest. None of the characters were interesting. You're better off sticking to ither games like Doom Eternal or Final Fantasy 7 Remake. Hell, I'm more blown away by what Xenoblade Chronicles was able to accomplish on the Switch remastered.The Last of Us was my favorite game of all time. I played through the campaign 3 times. To say I am disappointed with this sequel is a massive understatement. I can't believe they did this to this game. Should be ashamed of themselves. Just terrible. And wow have the left wing games "journalists" been exposed over this one.Made an account just to post this. What a sick and distasteful way to kill one of the most beloved characters your studio has ever put out. Truly sickening. Furthermore the way characters act completely goes against what they would have done from the first game. THIS GAME IS NOT CANON IF IS A FAN FICTION. I don’t think I can buy from naughty dog again who used to be my favorite studio until this disgraceful mess!That game is an absolute insult to all the fanbase! Ellie goes on a killing spree after Abby kills Joe, Tommy and pretty much everybody Ellie loves. The story is a nonsensical revenge journey that does not pay off in the end! Save your money!After blasting through it this weekend I can honestly say it was a great disappointment when compared to the first, level designs seemed alot better and graphically it is stunning but the game play felt so similar to the previous one and I expected more from a ps4 title... I was not hooked by the story in the slightest and found it a slog to playthrough, especially making you play through half the game as such an unlikable character. It was clear the message and tone they were going for but I just found it boring and depressing, never have I felt so unsatisfied after finishing a game.This is a true sequel in every way to the first game released both on PS3 and PS4... The last of us Part 2 gives Ellie so much more growth and depth just as we see how she grows into her own. This game is being hailed as one of the best games even produced this console gen and I completely agree!Awful storytelling, especially after coming from the first game which is impeccable across the board. Too depressing and melancholic to a point of being self loathing. A terrible shame to see the franchise fall in such a disreputable state and it’s safe to say it’s worth just watching the cutscenes on YouTube to understand the complaints. Graphics and Gameplay are serviceable, but that isn’t enough to carry a story driven experience.This game has THE most beautiful visuals and audio that I ever experienced, but one of the most disappointing plot drags it all down. Graphics, design, acting and sound are amazing. ND has the best art team. But I was never into gaming for graphics - it's like 20% of the experience for me, maybe even less. Graphics can't really add much score to the game (for me). It's a multiplyer. It could make a good game great, but it doesn't do much to elevate a bad game, which is the case with TLOU2. The atmosphere and plot is Bleak and Hopeless. Everything is going from good to bad to worse, and you are forced to watch this trainwreck. Not only that, you are forced to actively participate in it. I cannot count the number of times when the character is about to do something utterly stupid or just disgusting and abhorrently evil, and I simply find myself not wanting to progress. I want to turn away and walk in the other direction, but I can't. It wouldn't be as bad, but the game then actively moralizes with YOU, and scolds YOU as a player for making those decisions and actions that you didn't make. The writer made those decisions for you, and then he punishes you for playing the game that he made. And every damn character, including Allie is like that. Every last one of them is unlikeable. Except Joel, that is DEAD and that we meet in flashbacks that is the only positive thing of the game. But if you're ever allowed to witness that positivity and feel good - that only means that the game is preparing to dip you head first in a bucket of **** because as soon as you'll return to reality, all that positivity will be crushed by something terrible. It's to the point that I found myself completely emptionally detached and simply not caring about anything that happens. I had an urge to skip cutscenes in this game. I'm forced to watch my favorite character deconstructing herself for 15 hours (let's not count the Abby part where I just want to get over with as fast as possible because I want this **** dead). Then there's a problem of the second character. Basically what they do with Abby is they first make us hate her, and then they force us to PLAY AS HER and show us that she's not as bad. Problem is, first impression is already made, and it's THE WORST. No matter what you do after that, I just can't get over the bitterness of knowing what this **** did, and I can't warm up to her. Having a totally unlikeable personality and, let me be blunt here, ugly testosterone-filled looks doesn't help. And then it ends with.... nothing. We've killed so many, we've lost so much, Allie crossed all the bridges... And then we spare the only person who ACTUALLY deserved to die? We just let her go... for what? Why? Why should Abby get to live? The only way they could possibly make it ANY worse was for Ellie to spare her and for that to get drowned by Abby immediately. That'd be nice. And that'd fit in with the story. There's zero positive things to this game other than visuals. Gameplay is mediocre - it's not improved from the first part and feels outdated. It's even worse, somehow. Now look. I think that some people will enjoy that story. Truly. For them - this will be a 10/10 experience. But I think the majority of the fans will NOT. Here's the thing. I do think that some movies and games should go in that direction. To be dark, bleak, violent, outright depressing - all of which TLOU2 is. But I feel that if you're making a SEQUEL - you can not just change the tone so much. Imagine watching Raven first, which is a bleak, somewhat depressing movie, but it has hope and satisfying finale. Then you go into sequel, and all that happens is those ****ty things but without any Raven to punish the villains. You're just watching them torture and kill people for 2 hours. That's the tonal change of TLOU2. Everything is BAD, and will get worse. I think when you make a SEQUEL, you have a bit of a responsibility to your fans to make it "more of the same", to make it satisfying to people who loved the original. If it was a standalone, I would just say it isn't for me. As a Sequel to my favorite game - I can't just let it go. The story is 0/10 for me. The press that all gave it 10/10? Most of them are SHILLS. Maybe they don't get outright PAID, but they rate it high so that they keep receiving early copies. Because if they rate it low - next time ND and Sony wouldn't send it. They are INCENTIVISED to rate high. Aside from graphics, there's nothing to give 10/10 for. Outdated gameplay and unpleasant unfulfilling story that should leave most of the fans extremely upset, and most of normal people at least partially distressed thanks to all the violence and so on. The result is +2 for graphics + 6 for gameplay - 5 for story. Yes, actually negative score for story. If there was no story and just beautiful levels - the game would have been BETTER. Result: 3/10 game for me. Literally do not recommend this to people like me.Kudos to the level designers and the artists who put together a game that looked so amazing. Such a pity that their work is completely overshadowed by a story that is so bizarre and drawn out that I struggled to finish it. You play as the main protagonist, Abby, for so long that I stopped caring about Ellie's (the secondary character's) story by the time the game got back to her. Long sequences about nothing background information about the main protagonist that is a cheap attempt to get you to feel for her. The characters are uninteresting and not at all likable. The ending is the most unsatisfying ending I've ever experienced. The ending was so bizarre and not in line with the rest of the story It was all for nothing.The game has very good graphics, interesting gameplay and excellent scenarios, these are the good points. But the main element of The Last of Us that is story was destroyed, the Naughty Dog made fans of the game disappointed by the death of Joel, who was very remarkable character and who dies pathetically in the game. The story took a totally different turn than most players imagine, and made the game's narrative very political and boring. So doing the game The Last of Us part II, which was long disappointment for the people who played the first game. And finally, the game has many bugs of collision with the scenery and textures do not load. For everything I said in the analysis my score will be low, because that game was a big disappointment for me.After being all in with the Last of Us Part I, I was more than ecstatic to hear about Part II even though it had been 7 years since I played the PS3 version. Seeing Joel connect with Ellie in a way that only a father figure can, it allowed me to see the relationship I have with my daughter and how it could possibly play out in my life if the same events were to happen. I loved Part 1, but as I began to play Part II, that feeling of Nostalgia and the longing to see the growth of Joel and Ellie’s relationship was cut short and I felt as if I was thrust into a big budget Liam Neeson movie with terrible a script and horrible writers. I could not get involved in the story at all. I still played through the game in its entirety, but I didn’t feel a wanting for more. I am just glad I was done. Shame on you Naughty Dog for attempting to ride the political wave to cash in on real issues. This game sucks as beautiful as it is and if Part III is released I probably won’t be getting it.1 point for the graphics. The way of treating the characters is terrible. Naughty dog doesn’t respect the fans anymore. Epic bad ending. I won’t spoil. But I feel the same after the ending of game of thrones...I am a fan of the first game. i played every dlc and the main story about 10 times. i was looking forward to this game for a long time and now this. the story is bad, the charakters are bad and i hate it when they put their political agenda in games. 1/10Really disappointed by this one. While there is absolutely superb production quality in the acting, graphics, etc; and the combat is fortunately not changed much from the enjoyable combat in the first game, the story is just absolutely terrible. I think of this game like a coat that is super stylish and super comfortable, but smells like rotten eggs. Doesn't matter how stylish or comfortable the coat is, you wouldn't wear it. Same with this game, great production quality doesn't wash off the stink of a story that is relentlessly dreary, negative, cynical, that disrespects the characters you love from the first game, and has gigantic plot holes to boot. It's really a shame that Naughty Dog messed up the franchise like this, I'm shocked no one at Sony saw this coming and put the kibosh on it. For a company that has had so many good exclusives to mess up one this big is shocking. Get back in touch with gamers guys, actual real gamers.We cant have strong Male characters they all have to be dumb so we prop up the female characters. That's lazy story telling lazy writing. You kill off a beloved character in the most unsatisfying way. Then have ellie chase down the character just in the end to not kill her. Neil druckman ruined this game after 7 years this is what we get..Storyline was brutally murdered, just like joel The first game was a masterpiece, this one is clearly a lame excuse to pass on agendas and political correctness..Horribly disappointed. Hope the part 3 redeems the franchise. Anticlimactic ending, character development sucks, gameplay sucks and for the life of me why sony didn’t censor the sexual scene is beyond me. Is this was any other game they would have censored the hell out of it. Only redeeming quality is the graphics.It is a sensational, impeccable game, better than practically all the games I have played in my life, ND and Sony are to be congratulated, what a work of art, a true masterpiece.game full of trash. first, it surprises a player of a fantastic level with graphics and elaboration of locations. Anita sarkeesian (crap woMAN) turned the game a bunch of sjw freaks. I want to burp from the plot. the beloved character was brutally hammered with a stick, with a gender fluid with a pigtail. I delete this tolleristic garbage and wish the game to fail! Sorry for my mistakes. I still speak English badlyThis is not a game that we know Silly story Repeative gameplay High budget 7 years of developments That ends like trash.. nothing is worth to play this gameExcellent animation, beautiful graphics. However the main points of the franchise, the story and the characters, have been butchered and **** upon, all in the name of feminism. Druckman please leave Naughty Dog, and start your own damn company, I'm 10000% sure Sony will fund you without question. Just give us back Amy Henning, and you can do your own thing, nobody would mind. Just please stop pissing on Naughty Dog's name and history, for the love of GodViolent, exciting and aggressive. A truly Ps4 masterpiece. Definitely a must play in the PS4 games template.good graphic. a very beautiful game that constantly surprises with its landscapes very adult seromoral story ,a game that gives food for thought. thank you very much for game neil.Bueno, el juego TLU 2, tiene un gameplay expectacular, unas mecanicas que impresionan, unos graficos dignos de años de trabajo, pero una historia y guion fatales, no han pasado ni dos horas de peli-juego (y si puesto que son 5 minutos de cinematica por 10-15 de juego), y ya cansa y agita al expectador de tanta mamada que quieren dar, la muerte de joel es un punto clave para el desarrollo del juego, pues sin esta el resto no tiene sentido alguno, pero luego que tenemos, personajes forzados a que uno tenga que empatizar con ellos y no es por ser homofobico ni esas mamadas, pero haber, te fuerzan a querer algo, que si esta o no, en nada afecta a la jugabilidad si elie es lesbiana pues esta bien, pela, yo quiero un juego donde tenga que sobrevivir y explorar , pero ¿qué te dan? eso con esa historia que dises puaj, que mierda estoy jugando y mata todo lo bueno del juego, es sierto es un buen juego por lo que mencione al incio, pero en estos juegos no es posibible jugar sin que la histroria este presente, no es como un fornite o un call of duty, que pueden tener buenos gameplay, y si ves o no la historia pela, pero en este caso no, porque la base del juego es su historia, hace años cuando salio el primer TLu lo que a muchos nos encanto fue su historia, el ver como los personajes ivan creciendo y desarrollandose de a poco, con un buen game play y mecanicas, pero ahora nos dan esta mierda de guion y de historia y se cagan, litermaemnte en el juego, es un buen juego, inetntentan ser inlcuisivos pero,no de la manera correcta, sino como peliculas que han fracasado , lo quieren meter a la fuerza, y asi ni la ropa entra. Por eso le doy 0, porque si la historia esta mal, no importa su gameplay, porque no dejas de pensar. QUE mierda estoy jugando.Not worth our time & money. Neil Druckmann should be known as Drunk man after this disappointing game. Nothing is good about it. The ending sucks. This game just wanna push the illuminati transgender & lesbian agenda. That's all that it cares about. This gme is not fun. Don't ever let the Drunk man make games ever againstory trash. Conbat and gameplay overall is good. Not enough ways to do a mission like other games give you. Just two thing kill or wait forever to let people go by. No set up for traps or other ways to kill enemy or anythingIts a beautiful game, showing perspectives of many characters at once how everyone is right according to themselves and many times being wrong in the worst way. The first game focused only on ellie and joel. While the second does the thing that probably no other post apocalyptic story had done. It shows many perspectives, how action of one becomes painful for someone else, the consequences. This game even does right by joel and ellie, maybe not that much but good enough. This game makes me love in fall with the first game even more, the way it is all connected, its beautiful. Knowing all the controversies surrounding this game, for me it was beautiful. This game is the very true representation of humanity, YES it does this better than any other game.Before buying this awful game, do yourself a favor and rent it first. Play first 2 hrs or so. I seriously want my money back, but I bought it digital version.I have been playing for a long time and I would say that I am about to finish it and I liked it a lot .. I hope they make a multiplayer for PS5 that with this gameplay would be incredible! I hope the toxic community does not continue spoiling the gameMan, people are so angry these days. Spoiled kids. Back in the day we would have dreamed of such games. The game is absolutely beautiful, in every aspect.The story is weak , There’s a lot of plot holes and flaws, bad writing. Gameplay is like playing the old game, don't take me wrong the old game is good, but this one has nothing to add to it , it felt like playing an old gen game, the good thing is the graphics is great , a lot of nostalgia, you will be engaged into the game with the sounds and the scenery. Which is a shame that was built on a weak story and a bad gameplay.Graphics are really good. the gameplay is just average. But the story is garbage. I have had dreams that had more coherent stories than this. What a shame. Niel Druckman should be fired.The game is awful ending is garbage and the character abby is thrash a character no body wants the whole story is awful is mediocre at it finest is a big **** you to the first gameThe plot of this game is an insult to the legacy built up by TLOU 1. The only like-able characters are Ellie and Joel, but they butcher their stories and miss out on delving deeper into their relationship. Instead they focus on a new character that feels very forced, and is extremely hard to empathize with because of an unforgivable act they commit early in the game. The entire second half of this game felt very cringe and was hard to play through. What was Naughty Dog thinking when they wrote this plot? If you were expecting a sequel that had any similarity in terms of the world to TLOU 1, then unfortunately this game will be extremely disappointing. The end leaves you feeling empty and asking yourself what was the point of this entire game. The TLOU 2 trailers should be considered false advertisement because they purposely avoid showing the horrendous second half of the game. If you liked TLOU 1 gameplay then you will like TLOU 2 gameplay. Visuals were great too, but the lackluster plot takes away from the entire experience. It's such a shame, and it hurts as a fan of TLOU 1 to see the direction they took this game.I don't know what to say about this game. All it is a political agenda, sjw propaganda. Lets talk about the story, a girl kills this person that is like a "father figure"to you and you try to hunt this person down, and then not only hunt down this person but you kill everyone that was involved with that one person who killed the person who was like a "father figure" to you; then you get to the end of the game and you have the chance to kill her, but then you have a flashback of the person that was killed by the girl who was your "father figure", but because of that flashback you fill that you should let her go because of it (Spoiler) after she BIT OFF TWO OF YOUR FINGERS just secs ago, but no you fill you should let her go, sorry bad writing, terrible story. Nothing is that exciting about the combat and gameplay to me the combat is still the same; nothing else is good accept for the graphics, and that's it. Oh by the way the (spoiler)person who killed her "father figure" you gets to play as her which no one likes.It's pretty obvious by now that many "gaming news" websites are paid by developers to give them good scores. There is no way that a game like this would ever get a 10 score if those "specialists" were actually being honest. Not only the story was incredibly screwed and unnecessarily prolonged to say the obviousm (perhaps to increase gameplay time), but also the games forces you through a single view seeking you to accept the victimization of a criminal in the game(not gonna add spoilers here, but who played this one knows whom I'm talking about). Besides that the "visceral" violence in the game that some of the (PAID) press is praising is actually done in a way that psychologically screwed up the developers involved. With all that said at least the graphics of the game are good, but that's unfortunately pretty much all the good in this game.Gameplay-6/10 disappointed with the lack of improvement from the last game .Ai- 7/10 it is quite dumb sometimes. Story-3/10 no likeable character, bad ending , bad fan service Graphics/ design -8/10 uncharted 4 looks better imo this game have a lack of set pieces .Replay ability- 2/10 game is too long and boring could have been cut shorter and was quite bored towards the end .Overall verdict - everything was done for shock value and the story is just very badThis game spits in the face of its fan instead opting to pander to companies or something. As a game it's not broken it's bug free for the most part and doesn't have major frame rate drops. The story is awful I won't go into details but you will be disappointed even if you've never played the last of us, it's stretched out full of plot holes and does nothing to draw you into any of the characters or the very limp plot. Gameplay is basic hide and shoot area after area broken up with quick time events. Overall very disappointing as I loved the first last of us, it didn't have great gameplay but it's story was amazing. Please don't buy this game it's best to ignore it exists and go back and play the original game. Lowered the score to 1/10 because after 45 attempts to upload this review i gave up and had to do another 20 attempts 8 hours later.I am already playing it, and it was not as ambitious a game as they were commenting, those of naughty dog, I have noticed many bugs, a very serious downgrade, and I see that it has the same graphic engine as the first one. Abby's character seems like a robot, what an ugly character, I am playing as fast as possible to be able to kill her in the bloodiest way, because heck how horrible is, I have also noticed some lows of incredible frames, and even so the notes gave it a 96 and almost 100 in all really?, this smells like you paid journalists very well, that game becomes monotonous and continuous in graphics and things to do, the ps4 pro can not over there I suppose I think that in the next generation the graphic change will be noticed a little more and the game will be more fluid in terms of frames. But the story was shattered by the argument of leading Joel into an ambush so easily, such a careful guy, and who didn't help other people, is so stupid. well this game in my opinion is overrated, the score it should have had was a maximum of 70,For people who are used to playing good games, and who have good stories and good graphics, this does not surprise us, it is not innovative and leaves a lot to be desired, rather it seems that the first one is better composed in everything, because even in graphics making comparisons are better in the flashbacks of the moment that joel kills the doctor and runs away with ellie. This game was left to several Junior developers posing as seniors and they destroyed the story as well as the design of the characters that they did not like everyone,overrated score, that game is a 70.What a horrible game... their first game was a masterpiece but once again a dev decides to push their politic agenda in people's throat and put all this sjw crap in their game. Did they honestly think this political uninspired garbage is what people want? If you like this crap you're or easily pleased an sjw/retard yourself or you didn't play a decent game in your whole life. Just like all those critics praising every game crap or no crap, they proved it right here how they haven't any feeling for gaming anymore. It's really sad how more and more critics and devs are taking the sjw road, there should be no place for politics in games! And if this is how the future of gaming looks like i quit. Well at least tlou2 has beautiful graphics and scenery's but that's about it for pros... Luckily i experienced the golden years of gaming from the SEGA to N64 all the way to the ps3, one masterpiece after another. sadly kids will never understand and only know this crap.. poor them.Awful story, characters make stupid decisions. Agenda pushing over actual quality story telling. Visual stunning game, such a shame it has been ruined.So disappointed! It seems it was made to troll everyone. The people that worked on it should be ashamed. I feel violated That is all I will say.1 point gives to the amazing graphic, -9 points give to the terrible story. This game makes me feel sick after I beat it, really really uncomfortable. I don’t think that should be what games are made for. A game made for total political propaganda. This time Naughty Dog has really disappointed us as gamers, they not only provided this mess to us, but also destroyed the first TLOUS, so that’s what you get... 1 point. Really really disappointing! A total trash!The main problem with The Last of Us 2 is that it fails on a conceptual level. ‘Violence begets violence’ may seem like some kind of deep philosophy but it really isn’t, and it’s also not particularly original. Marry that with outdated gameplay, poor writing, poor pacing, uninspired environmental ‘puzzles’ and unlikable characters, and you’ve got The Last of Us 2. It gets a 3 based on its technical achievement alone.Strongly. A deep story that did not leave me indifferent. The themes that the game raises make you think about many things. Questions of humanity, violence, and forgiveness. What Ellie and other important story characters experience, you feel for yourself. Question: "what would I do?" A difficult story that manages to both amuse you and leave you alone with not the most pleasant thoughts. The same gray moral that permeates, that permeates the whole plot. It's beautiful. Years of waiting and hope. Naughty Dog did an incredible thing. A great intense gameplay that you dive into with your head. Excellent technical work. The game looks so amazing that I kept stopping and just looking at the surroundings. For this Titanic work, my low bow. Naughty Dog, thank you for the masterpiece continuation of the masterpiece game. Infinite respect to you. The emotions that your story has given me are incomparable to anything else. The Last of Us and The Last of Us Part 2-this is the story that I will remember for the rest of my life. Two of my favorite games. Thank you Naughty Dog. You are amazing.Ao contrário de muitos, estou votando depois de ter jogado. O jogo tem gráficos belíssimos, uma jogabilidade perfeita. O ponto polêmico vai ser a história e o destino de alguns personagens. Quem não gostar disto depois de ter jogado eu compreendo. Mas, pra mim é um jogo nota 10.How on earth is this game getting anything over a 5/10?? Just like the mainstream media can't be trusted with politics. "Big gaming sites" might even be worse!! They wouldn't dare rate this stunning and brave game anything less than a "MASTERPIECE" The graphics are fantastic and the gameplay is solid no doubt. However the story is bad it's laughable. It's a pathetic revenge story where you don't even get revenge!! Within three hours of the game I was ready to smash my ps4. The middle is ridiculous forcing you to play as Abby who no one cares about. Then they try to make characters we love just so out of character so you'll try and emphasize with Abby. It fails so badly. I’ll wrap the review up by saying the ending could’ve redeem the entire game if they would’ve just let you kill Abby in such a brutal and fantastic way but noooo she survives and manages to bite off two of Ellie fingers lmao what??? This might be the worst sequel to a game in the history of gaming with the story so pathetic it’s some thing a 16-year-old one right on our Tumblr.The last of was has always been about Ellie and Joel plus the stealth gameplay. Tlou2 mis represented what the game is really about.It’s a phenomenal game. Ofcourse they could have killed the Brother instead but nontheless a phenomenal experience !! Must buy and must play!!The game actively looks for ways to punish players for investing emotions into the game by using illogical plots that completely contradict the premises from the previous title. There's neither urgency of survival nor compelling dialogues for me to stick with the one-dimensional gameplay that has strange pacing. I physically cannot continue furthering the plot, the 10+ hrs of gore without a valid justification made me started to question my desire to play the game. P.S: for ppl questioning game play time, Australia is on different timezone?The leaks were absolutely true this game was a mistake and naughty dog should have just left the game alone after the 1st one.Overhyped game. Nice graphics wasn't hard when Uncharted is a beautiful master a piece. Has some glitches like Dina can't be spotted by the enemies when she is right infront of them. Walking through objects,... Story is garbage. Do yourself a favor and don't listen to paid fake journalist who get paid to write fake reviews. Just go watch some episodes on youtube, decide for yourself and then wait untill it's into the 15 dollars range or buy it 2nd hand because that's what it deserves because that's what it is worth. Director gave himself big brain in the game, more like small PP.The treatment of flagship characters in this failed attempt at a squeal is truly embarrassing. Everyone should ask for and receive a refund. This is clearly a cash grab by Naughty Dog. How they can expect you to play as a character that you have no empathy for in a game based on character development and storytelling is ridiculous to say the least. I am just truly disappointed.Great game and best experience ever Graphically is gorgeous Gameplay is awesome Story so dark and tragedy Yeah I wouldn't like to see LGBT eliminate But still it's so awesome and fun, one of the best game you may play One thing they improve among all other thing is the puzzles And somthing they removed, it won't rowing the experience but it was coll to see and that is the reflection of the light... In TLOU 2013 when the light hit a red wall the reflection in the edges are red unlike TLOU2 this cool detail has been removedi was so hyped for this game 20 and something hours later i finished the game and all i can say is this is one of the most disappointing games i have played this year and here why pros: - the visuals looks great every detail and everything is just wow - sound is top notch from the music to the sound of the zombies - voice acting is really good -the world building and map design is really up there cons ( oh boy here we go) - the sheer amount of plot holes is just laughable - story writing is trash - forgettable characters - the way they handled some characters is just ridicules - AI is still stupid af - ending was a piece of hot garbage -antagonist is basically useless and gets away with way to much - devs basically destroyed everything they built in the previous game as you see this game is divided into two parts gameplay and story the gameplay of this game improved so much and props to them but the story just took a deep nose dive and ruined the whole franchise and because the story is the important part because this is a story based game the game just fails miserably in conclusion (and it really pains me to say this because the first game was a 1010) this game deserves a 4 out of 10 i do not recommend this game just play the first one and end it there in the end all i can say is LOOK HOW THEY MASCARAED MY BOYI tried to like this game i really did. The graphics are very beautiful. They remind me of the old game but improved. It breaks my heart that the so called writer took the direction they did with this story. To watch such a beloved franchise be destroyed just to push a LBGTQ and SJW ideology is criminal. If i were an investor in this company i would sue them. Its one thing to have a progressive story that is inclusive of peoples sexual preferences but to kill off the white straight father figure of ellie just to push their garbage agenda is disgusting. You could literally feel the palpable hatred of straight white men when the trans thing bashed his head in. The game play was kinda outdated in some ways and in some ways it seemed vastly improved. I love that they expanded the area size. I would like to see them bounce back and hopefully learn their lesson from ever doing something as irresponsible and unfair to their loyal fan base again.I don’t see the hate from playing the first one I think this is still great I figured it was going to be dark with no happy ending, if you were looking for a happy ending maybe don’t play iti was one of those people that have been wating this game for so long, i played the original one in ps3 and replayed it in ps4 in short.... The good: the game visually is stuning, great, you can feel hard work from all people that designed and created the enviroments models for the game, the soundtrack is good, pretty similar from the first game but is really good. the bad: THE WRITTING, as a narrative based game like the first one was, and how this second part was advertised, the writting is really bad, not thaking advantage of anything of what could be and judt relaying all in "shock moments", characters from the first game feel more like devolutions of what they were, mechanics are ok, no really a significant change at all, and the interaction with the enviroment like puzzles and those are really most gone, and zombies what should have been one of the most interesting things to interact/fight are left really behind and barely given a chance to bewhat they were in the first game. the WORST: this game suffered a lot from what tried to achieve, poorly lgbt+ potrayal of characters, feeling more annoying that they could be, beside the ,ajor plat an ellie story, all of them have stories that have been better represented in other media, leaving them just as poorly writen characters, the "adult scene" was meaningless and really just worked as a "shock moment" that left me disgusted, and what is worst about is that it shows a double moral for what sony allow or no to show in games, basically censorship, censorship that other franchises have suffer for less graphic content. and finally the interaction between Joel and ellie is completely gone, it left really sour and bitter taste from all the flashbacks, and the treath that they gave to joel as character is one of the worst things ND have ever made poorly and wrongly handle. im really disapointed for all the hype that i had to bare to play this game. its Just sadSo many people think the reviews come from "haters" to **** on Naughty Dog" for the hell of it. But the SJW LGTBQ aspect of the game is perfectly fine. There is no issue there. The story is god awful. After so many years of waiting they bring out a washed out revenge story were Elie, after going on a murderous rampage to avenge Joel, simply decides is not worth it. The gameplay elements are almost basically the same and even thought the graphics are stunning it does not save the player from the disapoinment of the bad writing. Such a shame. Not recommended to buy for 60 USD, wait for a sale.